{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8940\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200\qj

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200\qj

\b0 \cf0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Finals\
Editors\'92 Packet #3\ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 \ulc0 \
Tossups\ulnone \
\
1. The Milky Way was referred to as this deity\'92s \'91chain\'92 and this figure wins a game of chess by inventing a new move, one of the exploits that earned him the epithet \'91Ild\'e1nach\'92. This deity avenges his father by refusing to give a magic pig-skin to the wounded sons of Tuireann [too-ran] and this figure is said to have founded the Tailteann [tawl-tan] games. This deity ends the Fomorians\'92 control over the Tuatha D\'e9 Danann [too-atha djey danan] by killing Balor and capturing the former king Bres. For 10 points, name this sun god of Irish mythology.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Lug
\b0 \ulnone h [lew]\
\
2. Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome is the failure of this structure caused by haemorrhagic bacterial infection. The neural crest derived cells of this structure are directly innervated by preganglionic sympathetic neurons and the arteries supplying this structure are the only ones in the splanchnic bed to dilate during stress. The cortex of this organ has a fetal zone that regresses in neonatal life and its zona fasciculata produces cortisol in the adult. For 10 points, name these paired endocrine organs that release catecholamines and sit atop the kidneys.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Adrenal Glands
\b0 \ulnone  [or adrenals]\
\
3. Chen Zaidao led the Million Heroes in this city during one the first major challenge to the Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution. Hankou was the first of its three constituent parts to be opened to trade with the west, and it was briefly the capital of China in 1937 before the government was evacuated further west to Chongqing. In 1911, the Qing Dynasty was overthrown by the Wuchang Uprising, which began in this city. For 10 points, name this city on the Yangtze River, known for being the most populous city in central China.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Wuhan
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 4. Some reeds sprout out of a wicker basket on the left of this painting, and a bird is perched on the rung of a small ladder in the background.  Through an open door on the left a flock of rams and sheep can be seen peaking over a fence in front of a green field. Wearing a loincloth and carrying a bowl of water, John the Baptist appears on the right, beside Joseph, whose hands are at work just behind the red hair of one of the title figures. For 10 points, identify this John Everett Millais painting.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Christ in the House of His Parents
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 5. This concept helps elucidate the 
\i de re
\i0  / 
\i de dicto
\i0  distinction by allowing us to state that something essentially has a certain property if it has that property in every one of these. David Lewis introduced his counterpart relation as part of an argument concerning this philosophical concept. According to Kripke, a rigid designator is a term that refers to the same thing in all of these. Modal realism describes the position that these exist in the same sense as the world we live in. For 10 points, according to Leibniz, we live in the best of all what?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Possible worlds
\b0 \ulnone  (prompt on just worlds)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 \
6. These function groups can be formed by the reaction of alcohols and nitriles under acidic aqueous conditions in the Pinner Reaction, and they can be reduced to primary alcohols using ethanol and sodium in the Bouveault-Blanc Reaction. Carbonyl groups are found beta to these functional groups in the products of the Dieckmann and Claisen condensations. For 10 points, name these functional groups formed by the reaction of an alcohol and a carboxylic acid, which often have distinctive fruity odours. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ester
\b0 \ulnone s\
\
7. This man\'92s second wife claimed she lost respect for him when he took on a project in the Calico Hills. He once won a bet with Hans Reck that he could find Acheulean tools in under 24 hours. In a debate over female genital mutilation, he tried to shout down Jomo Kenyatta in fluent Kikuyu. He was sick when his wife found \'93Nutcracker Man.\'94 This author of 
\i Adam\'92s Ancestors
\i0  encouraged his \'93Angels,\'94 including Dian Fossey and Jane Goodall. For 10 points, name this human paleontologist, the husband of Mary, who worked in Olduvai Gorge.\
ANSWER: Louis (Seymour Bazett) 
\b \ul Leakey
\b0 \ulnone \
\
8. F. Digby Hardy was attempting to capture this man when he was tricked into negotiating with a room full of journalists in disguise. This leader  agreed to use artillery to evict his opponents from the Four Courts after the assassination of Henry Wilson in 1922. Earlier, he had planned the assassinations that took place on Bloody Sunday in 1920, one year before he became the first leader of his country\'92s provisional government. For 10 points, name this Irish nationalist leader who was shot in 1922 during the Irish Civil War.\
ANSWER: Michael 
\b \ul Collins
\b0 \ulnone  [or M\'edcheal \'d3 
\b \ul Coile\'e1in
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 9. In many programming languages, functions introduced with a lambda employ the \'91anonymous\'92 variety of this concept. The master theorem is frequently used to determine the run time of algorithms described using this concept. The main portion of merge sort is typically written using this technique. This programming concept is what enables the implementation of divide and conquer algorithms. For 10 points, name this programming concept, which describes functions that call themselves.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Recursion
\b0 \ulnone  (accept word forms)\
\
10. \'c9mile Ollivier fired this man from his best-known position after the murder of Victor Noir sparked riots. Jules Ferry rose to fame with a series of articles denouncing this man\'92s \'93Fantastic Accounts.\'94 His plans were divided into three 
\i reseaux
\i0 , the third of which involved the annexation of communes in the suburbs. He created wide streets to make it harder to set up barricades, and he designed the Bois de Vincennes as a working-class recreation area akin to the Bois de Boulogne. For 10 points, name this prefect of the Seine who renovated Paris.\
ANSWER: (Baron) Georges-Eug\'e8ne 
\b \ul Haussmann
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 11. A character in this play repeats the word \'93money\'94 five times to illustrate that it doesn\'92t mean anything, after returning from a patient who had a headache but thought he was dying, A horoscope read in this play tells that an important date was one character\'92s lucky day, according to Frank Lubey. Denying that her son must be dead, Kate is made to learn the truth of Larry\'92s suicide from a letter revealed by Ann Deever. For 10 points, name this Arthur Miller play about Joe Keller, who knowingly sold faulty airplane parts to the military.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul All My Sons
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 \
12. For particles with j=1/2 that undergo this effect, their Hamiltonian may be solved exactly to give the Breit-Rabi formula. In the strong-field limit of this effect, fine structure can be ignored and it is known as the Paschen-Back effect. The anomalous form of this effect was first observed in the d-lines of sodium, and it occurs when the total spin of the electrons involved is not zero. For 10 points, name this process where spectral lines are split by an external magnetic field, which is contrasted with the Stark effect.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Zeeman Effect
\b0 \ulnone \
\
13. After the Huguenots introduced nail making to this county, that industry became centered in the town of Bromsgrove. It was in this county that Charles II\'92s invasion of England was defeated in 1651, it was here that Simon de Montfort lost the Battle of Evesham, and it was here that the first major battle of the Civil War was fought. During World War II, this county was the proposed evacuation site for the War Cabinet, which would have met at Hindlip Hall. For 10 points, name this county that was once renowned for the spa water in Malvern.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Worcestershire
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 14. The title character of one of this man\'92s novels leaves his small mountain village to attend university, where he falls in love with the painter Erminia. The lifestyle of a different title character created by this author stands in stark contrast to the well-appointed potted araucaria that stands outside his apartment. In another novel by this author of 
\i Peter Camenzind, 
\i0 an encounter with the saxophonist Pablo in a Magic Theatre ends with Harry Haller killing Hermine. Perhaps his best-known novel is one that traces   a man\'92s enlightenment contemporaneous with that of the Gautama Buddha. For 10 points, name this author of 
\i Steppenwolf 
\i0 and 
\i Siddhartha
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Hermann 
\b \ul Hesse
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 \
15. In August 2013 this country\'92s tourism minister said he could attract younger tourists by building a new Disneyland here. A former neighboring head of state told Al Jazeera in November 2013 that Tony Blair asked him to support an invasion of this country. The wife of its then-prime minister was killed in a suspicious car crash in 2009; that prime minister, who leads a faction of the Movement for Democratic Change, is Morgan Tsvangirai. For 10 points, name this country whose ruling ZANU-PF party is still led by Robert Mugabe.\
ANSWER: (Republic of) 
\b \ul Zimbabwe\

\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 16. In this novel a young boy suffers an injury to his penis while he attempts to urinate out of a window that closes on his member. Another groin injury in this novel is inflicted upon the narrator\'92s uncle while he is in the army, an injury which results in an unhappy ending to his affair with the Widow Wadman. Uncle Toby and the parson Yorick are characters in this novel that ends with a cock and bull story. Frequently described as the first postmodern novel, for 10 points, name this work of Laurence Sterne.\
ANSWER: 
\i The Life and Opinions of 
\b \ul Tristram Shandy
\b0 \ulnone , Gentleman
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 \
17. One lip dub video of this song features Missy Franklin sashaying down a plane\'92s aisle and Ryan Lochte blowing a kiss at the camera, while another shows the Miami Dolphins cheerleaders popping out of a ball pit. In this song the artist declares \'93I beg and borrow and steal, have foresight and it\'92s real\'94, and \'93I wasn\'92t looking for this, but now you\'92re in my way\'94. For 10 points, name this song which contains the lyrics \'93Hey I just met you, and this is crazy\'94, by Carly Rae Jepsen.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Call Me Maybe
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 18. This composer's flute concerto features a duet between the solo flute and the bass trombone, supposedly because the flautist and the bass trombonist of the orchestra premi\'e8ring the work hated each other. One overture by this composer depicts the sun travelling across the sky; that work is the 
\i Helios Overture
\i0 . This composer is best known for his six symphonies; the four movements of his second symphony depict the four temperaments of man, while his fourth symphony is entitled 
\i The Inextinguishable
\i0 . For ten points, name this Danish composer of the twentieth century.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Carl Nielsen\

\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 19. This country was once protected by the Lascari and De Redin towers, some of which are in sight of its islands of Filfla and Comino. This country is home to some megalithic temples that are the world\'92s oldest free-standing structures; those temples are on its island of Gozo. Birkirkara is the most populous city in this country home to St. Paul\'92s Bay, where St. Paul was shipwrecked as described in Acts. This smallest member of the E.U. is the target of much North African immigration. For 10 points, name this island country whose capital is Valletta.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Malta\

\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 20. The narrator of this poem claims, \'93I am a part of all that I have met\'94 before lamenting, \'93how dull it is to pause, to make an end.\'94 The narrator\'92s son is introduced as the person \'93To whom I leave the sceptre and the isle\'94 in the second stanza of this poem in which the narrator looks forward to \'93some work of noble note\'94 which \'93may yet be done, / Not unbecoming men that strove with gods.\'94 This poem closes with the exhortation \'93to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.\'94 For 10 points, name this Tennyson poem about the hero of a Homeric epic.\
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul Ulysses
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 \ul Bonuses\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\qj
\cf0 \ulnone 1. He is the artist who sculpted the lions in Trafalgar Square. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this English painter of many pictures of dogs, such as 
\i Trial by Jury.\

\i0 ANSWER: Edwin Henry 
\b \ul Landseer
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This Landseer painting depicts a stag facing out of the canvas in front of some misty mountains. It has been used as the logo of multiple whiskeys.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Monarch of the Glen
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In this amazingly titled Landseer painting, two polar bears are shown tearing apart the remains of a polar expedition.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Man Proposes, God Disposes
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj

\b \cf0 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\qj

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 2. Answer some questions about schools of thought that are very unpopular among Oxford philosophers, for 10 points each:\
[10] This thinker included 
\i The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction
\i0  in his book 
\i Illuminations
\i0 . He argued that the \'93aura\'94 of an artwork is diminished after its reproduction.\
ANSWER: Walter 
\b \ul Benjamin
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone [10] Walter Benjamin was associated with this school of thought that was primarily a neo-Marxist group. Other notable associates include Theodor Adorno and J\'fcrgen Habernmas.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Frankfurt
\b0 \ulnone  School\
[10] The Frankfurt School is an example of this broad set of philosophy that is contrasted with the analytic movement popular in Oxford. Most of its major figures are from mainland Europe.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Continental
\b0 \ulnone  Philosophy
\b \ul \
\

\b0 \ulnone 3. Answer some questions about fasting in various religions, for 10 points each:\
[10] During this month Muslims fast as long as the sun is up.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ramadan
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This is the word used in Judaism to refer to a fast in which both food and drink are abstained from.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ta\'92anit
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul taanis
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul ta\'92anith
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] During the Affair of the Sausages this Swiss reformer spoke out in favour of the consumptions of sausages on that basis that the Bible does not explicitly forbid eating meat during Lent.\
ANSWER: Ulrich 
\b \ul Zwingli
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \ulnone 4. This poem ends with the speaker looking \'93up in perfect silence at the stars.\'94 For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this poem, in which a member of the title academic discipline delivers a lecture.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul \'93When I heard the Learn'd Astronomer\'94\

\b0 \ulnone [10] \'93When I heard the Learn'd Astronomer\'94 is a poem by this author of 
\i Leaves of Grass.\

\i0 ANSWER: Walt 
\b \ul Whitman\

\b0 \ulnone [10] In Walt Whitman\'92s \'93Song of Myself,\'94 the narrator sounds this noise, a sort of shout, \'93over the roofs of the world.\'94\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul barbaric yawp
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on \'93yawp\'94]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6\sl200
\cf0 5. For ten points each, answer these questions about malaria:\
[10] Infection by this protozoan genus causes malaria; their species include ovale, vivax and falciparum.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Plasmodium\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This drug was the first effective treatment for falciparum malaria \'96 it can be found in the bark of the Cinchona tree.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Quinine\

\b0 \ulnone [10] A plasmodium is at this stage in its life cycle when transferred from the salivary gland of a female Anopheles mosquito to the bloodstream of a human.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Sporozoite
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 \page 6. In this work, the peasant Nemorino is in love with Adina, but she only reciprocates when she finds out that he joined the army in order to pay a charlatan for wine he believes to be a magic potion. FTPE:\
[10] Nemorino sings the aria \'93Una furtiva lacrima\'94 in this opera, after believing Adina has finally fallen in love with him.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul L'elisir d'amore 
\i0\b0 \ulnone or 
\i\b \ul The Elixir of Love
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This composer of 
\i Lucia di Lammermoor 
\i0 wrote 
\i L'elisir d'amore.
\i0 \
ANSWER: Gaetano 
\b \ul Donizetti
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In this other Donizetti opera, the eponymous protagonist and his doctor Malatesta sing the duet \'93Cheti chete immaninenti\'94, and the characters learn not to marry in old age.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Don Pasquale
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380
\cf0 7. For 10 points each, answer some questions about coupling reactions in organic chemistry: \
[10] This metal, with symbol Pd, is widely used in coupling reactions because it is able to catalyse the formation of new carbon-carbon bonds under mild conditions. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Palladium
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] In this reaction, palladium in the zero oxidation state is used to couple a boronic acid and an organic halide. It is often used to synthesise substituted biphenyls. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Suzuki
\b0 \ulnone -Miyaura Reaction \
[10] This related reaction uses palladium to couple organostannanes to organic electrophiles. It is limited in its applications owing to the high toxicity of organostannanes. \
ANSWER: Migita-Kosugi-
\b \ul Stille
\b0 \ulnone  reaction \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 8. [10] This American president pushed forward legislation to create the Interstate Highway system in 1956, which made getting to the suburbs much easier.\
ANSWER: Dwight D. 
\b \ul Eisenhower
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul DDE
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Ike
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Between 1947 and 1951, this prototypical planned suburban development was constructed in Hempstead in New Jersey\'92s Nassau County.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Levittown
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] A police raid on an after-hours bar on 12\super th\nosupersub  Street touched off a major race riot in this city in 1967, leading to \'93White Flight\'94 to such suburbs as Birmingham and Bloomfield Hills.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Detroit
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380
\cf0 9. This quantity is not constant for non-Newtonian fluids and is zero for superfluid helium-4. For 10 points each: \
[10] Name this quantity, the resistance of a fluid to flow. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Viscosity
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This dimensionless quantity is equal to the ratio of inertial forces to viscous forces. Laminar flow occurs when this quantity is small. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Reynolds
\b0 \ulnone  Number \
[10] This other dimensionless quantity, the ratio of kinematic viscosity to thermal diffusivity, is used to predict whether convection or conduction will be the dominant method of heat transfer in a fluid. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Prandtl
\b0 \ulnone  Number \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 10. Hydraulic fracturing has led to an oil boom in the Bakken formation of this U.S. state. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this state, where the petroleum industry has been focused on the Williston Basin.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul North Dakota
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Despite the boom in oil production, North Dakota is only fourth among U.S. states in total oil production. Name any two of the three states that produce more oil.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Texas
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Alaska
\b0 \ulnone , and 
\b \ul California
\b0 \ulnone , in that order [two answers needed]\
[10] In July 2013 oil being transported from the Bakken formation caught fire when this event happened at Lac-M\'e9gantic in Quebec.\
ANSWER: a 
\b \ul train derailment
\b0 \ulnone  [accept any answer having to do with a 
\b \ul train
\b0 \ulnone  going off its 
\b \ul tracks
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
11. Sonny Venkatrathnam used Diwali cards to convince jailers on this island that his copy of 
\i The Complete Works of Shakespeare
\i0  was a religious text. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this South African island, where Nelson Mandela was imprisoned for 27 years.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Robben
\b0 \ulnone  Island\
[10] Mandela signed his name in the book next to the passage \'93Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once.\'94 That line appears in this Shakespeare play.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Julius Caesar
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Mandela\'92s confidante Walter Sisulu signed his name in the Robben Island Bible next to this character\'92s line, \'93Still I have borne it with a patient shrug, / For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe.\'94\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Shylock
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
12. This novel describes the childhood of two fraternal twins, Estha and Rahel. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this novel set primarily in Aymanam in which the two twins form a relationship with Untouchable Velutha.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The God of Small Things\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] 
\i The God of Small Things 
\i0 is by this Booker winning author. The title essay of her collection 
\i The Algebra of Infinite Justice 
\i0 criticised American foreign policy under George Bush.\
ANSWER: Arundhati 
\b \ul Roy\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Arundhati Roy is from this country which has produced other such literary figures as the mother-daughter authors Kiran and Anita Desai.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul India\

\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 13. For 10 points each, answer the following about the Tughlaq Dynasty.\
[10] The Tughlaq Dynasty was established in 1321 when Ghazi Malik took the throne of this city. Muhammad bin Tughluq later shifted the capital from this city to Daulatabad.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Delhi
\b0 \ulnone  [do not accept \'93New Delhi\'94]\
[10] This legendary Tangerine traveler sought employment with Muhammad bin Tughluq in Delhi during his \'93Rihla,\'94 which eventually took him as far as China, the Maldives, and Timbuktu.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ibn Battuta
\b0 \ulnone  [or Abu Abdallah Muhammad bin Abdallah al-Lawati al-Tanji bin 
\b \ul Battuta
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Leaders of the Tughlaq Dynasty were given this title, derived from an Arabic word meaning \'93strength\'94 or \'93authority,\'94 which was also applied to the leaders of the Ayyubids and Seljuks.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul sultan
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul Sultanate
\b0 \ulnone  of Delhi]\
\
14. For 10 points each, name some locations in the Star Wars Universe: \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380
\cf0 [10] This sinkhole-covered planet was home to the tall Pau\'92ans and the short Utai. Obi-Wan Kenobi killed General Grievous on this planet.  \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Utapau
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Princess Leia claimed that there was a Rebel base on this planet to try and prevent the destruction of Alderaan. This planet was home to the primitive Dantari race.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Dantooine
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This location wasn\'92t actually a moon. It was in fact a space station which contained a laser powerful enough to destroy planets. \
ANSWER: The 
\b \ul Death Star
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 15. Excerpts of novels from the fictional countries Cimmeria and Cimbria comprise certain even numbered chapters of this book. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this novel that follows the Reader's search for the missing chapters of a misprinted book.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul If on a winter's night a traveller\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] 
\i If on a winter's night a traveller
\i0  is a work by this author whose book 
\i Invisible Cities
\i0  is largely made up of prose poems describing fictional cities.\
ANSWER: Italo 
\b \ul Calvino\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Calvino was a member of this literary group alongside Georges Perec and Raymond Queneau. 
\i  A Void
\i0 , a novel without any e's, is a work produced within the genre of constrained writing associated with this group.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Oulipo
\i\b0 \ulnone  
\i0 (accept 
\i\b \ul Ouvroir de litt\'e9rature potentielle
\i0\b0 \ulnone )\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 16. Are you happy? If so, you\'92ll have no trouble answering the following about the power of positive thinking.  For 10 points each:\
[10] This character in 
\i Candide
\i0  was an especially positive thinker, an outlook he maintained even after he was hanged during an earthquake.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pangloss
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This minister and author thought everybody should be happy, and he said as much in his 1952 bestseller 
\i The Power of Positive Thinking
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Norman Vincent 
\b \ul Peale
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This American socialist lampooned the pink products that support breast cancer research in her misanthropic attack on positive thinking, titled 
\i Bright-Sided
\i0  (released in the UK as 
\i Smile or Die
\i0 ). She is also known for subsisting on minimum wage to write 
\i Nickel and Dimed
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Barbara 
\b \ul Ehrenreich
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380
\cf0 17. The Kola Superdeep Borehole made it about a third of the way to this region, whose namesake plumes create hot spots. For 10 points each: \
[10] Name this region of the Earth between the crust and the outer core. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mantle
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This boundary between the crust and the mantle was discovered by studying the refracted path of P-waves. It is named for a Croatian seismologist. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Moho
\b0 \ulnone rovicic discontinuity \
[10] This 200-km thick innermost region of the mantle lies directly above the outer core. It was named by the mathematician Keith Bullen. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul D\'94
\b0 \ulnone  (pronounced 
\b \ul D double prime
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul D prime prime
\b0 \ulnone ) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
18. For 10 points each, answer the following about the literature of Muslims in London.\
[10] Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha are Indian Muslims who survive an explosion in a hijacked plane at the beginning of this 1988 novel, which was the target of particular enmity from the Ayatollah Khomeini.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Satanic Verses
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Samad Iqbal is a Bengali Muslim who has an affair with Poppy Burt-Jones in this debut novel by Zadie Smith.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul White Teeth
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Nazneen moves from Bangladesh to Tower Hamlets to marry the much older Chanu in this Bangladeshi-British author\'92s 2003 novel 
\i Brick Lane
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Monica 
\b \ul Ali\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 19. For 10 points each, answer the following about early proponents of Charles Darwin:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 [10] After this biologist engaged in a celebrated debate with Samuel Wilberforce in 1860, he earned the moniker \'93Darwin\'92s Bulldog.\'94\
ANSWER: T(homas) H(enry) 
\b \ul Huxley
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The \'93Doasyoulikes\'94 represent Lamarckism when they forget how to use their tongues and lose the power of speech in this 1863 children\'92s novel about a chimney sweep by Charles Kingsley.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Water-Babies
\b0 \ulnone , A Fairy Tale for a Land Baby\

\i0 [10] In 
\i The Water Babies
\i0 ,
\i  
\i0 Kingsley\'92s \'93Great Hippopotamus Debate\'94 satirized T.H. Huxley\'92s debate with this opponent of Darwinism, who asserted that the hippocampus demonstrates that humans are a separate class from primates. He also coined the word \'93dinosaur.\'94\
ANSWER: Richard 
\b \ul Owen
\b0 \ulnone \
\
20. From 1397 until 1523, the countries of Scandinavia were united in this political affiliation. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this combined entity, which was named for a castle on the west coast of the Baltic Sea.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Kalmar
\b0 \ulnone  Union\
[10] The Kalmar Union finally ended in 1523 when Gustav Vasa became king of this constituent member of the Kalmar Union.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Sweden
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The Kalmar Union was founded when this Danish queen-regnant married King Haakon VI of Norway.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Margaret I
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Margrete Valdemarsdatter
\b0 \ulnone ; prompt on \'93Margaret\'94 or \'93Margrete\'94]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380
\cf0 \
\
}