{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;\red34\green34\blue34;}
{\info
{\author George}}\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14880\viewh14520\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri447\sl200\qj

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\

\b0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, P.J. Berry, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Round 1\
Pericardium + Antiviral Drug Disco\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
1. While fish do not possess this organ, some species have modifications to their pelvic or anal fins for a similar effect, and insects achieve the same functional end with an aedeagus [ee-DEE-uh-gus]. In ducks, redistribution of lymph to this organ can provide a similar function to the baculum and corpus cavernosum seen in mammalian species. In pigs this organ is corkscrew shaped while that of an echidna has keratinised spines and four heads. For 10 points, name this male sexual organ used to deposit sperm into the female.\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf3 ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Penis
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
2. One short story by this man consists of descriptions of a system of tunnels created by a mole-like creature. Another of his stories includes a discussion of why it was opportune not to build the title construct continuously, but rather disjoint. In addition to \'93The Burrow,\'94 this man wrote a story in which an apple gets stuck in the back of the central figure. This author of \'93The Great Wall of China\'94 wrote a novel about the accused of an unknown crime, Joseph K. For 10 points, name this author of 
\i The Metamorphosis
\i0  and 
\i The Trial
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Franz 
\b \ul Kafka
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 3. This work features an orange grove scattered with white blossoms picked out in gold. A figure in a white dress patterned with trees bearing blue flowers is trying to drape an orange-pink cloth over the central figure; while on the left of this painting, himself draped in a blue cloth, appears Zephyrus. This painting is housed in the Uffizi, and the title figure is standing on a large shell, rising from water. For 10 points, name this best known work of Sandro Botticelli.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Birth of Venus
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\i0 \cf3 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 4. Near this play\'92s beginning, a character compares the moon to a \'93princess who wears a yellow veil, and whose feet are of silver\'94, the first of a number of metaphors comparing the moon to the title character. The title character has a prophet extracted from prison before performing an act that ultimately leads to his death, to the delight of her mother Herodias. For ten points name this play in which Jokanaan, or John the Baptist, is beheaded after the title character\'92s Dance of the Seven Veils, written by Oscar Wilde.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Salom\'e9\

\i0\b0 \ulnone \
5. The diatomic form of this element is unique in being paramagnetic despite having an even number of electrons. This element is used in the second step of the chloride process to purify titania, and it is blown through iron in the Linz-Donawitz-Verfahren process for steelmaking. Three atoms of this element make up a gas whose decomposition is catalysed by CFCs, ozone.\'a0For ten points, name this gaseous group 16 element with atomic symbol O.\cf3 \
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Oxygen\
\

\b0 \ulnone 6. This power declined after the Battle of Colachel, where it was defeated by the Raja of Travancore. In order to sell deer skins to Japan, it fought the Ming Dynasty and Spain for control of Taiwan. It exported pepper from the Malukus, but was unable to displace Portuguese sandalwood traders from Timor. Its stronghold at Malacca was occupied by the British after the Batavian Revolution. The letters V.O.C. on a white, blue, and orange flag symbolized, for 10 points, what multinational trading corporation headquartered in Amsterdam?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Dutch East India
\b0 \ulnone  Company [or 
\b \ul Vereenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie
\b0 \ulnone ; accept 
\b \ul VOC
\b0 \ulnone  before it is mentioned; prompt on just \'93East India Company\'94]
\b \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \ulc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 7. This concept was perceived as being an Aristotelian \'93pseudophilosophy\'94 by Martin Luther who favoured a doctrine of \'93sacramental union\'94.  The Eastern Orthodox churches retain this doctrine and tend to refer to it as a \'93mystery\'94, while it is rejected by Methodists and most Anglicans.  The Council of Trent officially approved the use of which term to describe the religious doctrine that, for 10 points, concerns the conversion of the bread and wine into the body of blood of Christ in the sacrament of the Eucharist?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Transubstantiation\
\

\b0 \ulnone 8. This man worked as a chaplain\'92s assistant in Virginia and in 1969 he was one of only two survivors when a plane full of optometrists crashed. He fought for the US at the Battle of the Bulge, where he was taken prisoner. In 1976 he was killed by a shot in the head after giving a public speech.  In 1944 he witnessed the allied bombing of Dresden, where he was billeted as a prisoner-of-war.  The order of these events made no difference to him, however, once the Tralfamadorians had taught him to travel in time.  For 10 points, name this central character from Kurt Vonnegut's novel 
\i Slaughterhouse Five
\i0 .\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Billy Pilgrim\

\b0 \ulnone \
9. John Hannah, Mike Haynes and Andre Tippett are among this team\'92s inductees into its sport\'92s Hall of Fame. This team\'92s most successful era came under the coaching of Bill Belichick, and they registered a record twenty one consecutive victories from October 2003 to October 2004. That streak included a defeat of the Carolina Panthers in Superbowl 38, one of three won by this team in four years.  For 10 points, name this American football team led by quarterback Tom Brady, who play their home games in Foxborough, Massachusetts.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul New England Patriots
\b0 \ulnone  [full answer needed, prompt on partial answer]\
\
10. The Democratic National Convention in this year required 46 ballots, and Champ Clark was the frontrunner through 29. Eugene Debs achieved his highest percentage of the popular vote for the Socialist Party in this election, which was the last year in which the second-placed candidate was not a Democrat or a Republican; that candidate represented the Progressive Party, nicknamed the \'93Bull Moose Party.\'94 The incumbent William Howard Taft finished third in, for 10 points, what election that resulted in a victory for Woodrow Wilson?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul 1912
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
11. This work begins with a passage scored for eight cellos, playing the tune of the hymn 
\i God Preserve Thy People
\i0 .  Following long passage for all the strings of the orchestra, the hymn-tune reappears, followed by a folk-song like melody and another hymn, 
\i God Save the Tsar
\i0 . This work uses anachronistic fragments of the 
\i Marseillaise 
\i0 to represent the Battle of Borodino. First performed seventy years after the events it commemorates, this work features military sound effects, including a famous use of a 'cannon'.  Russia\'92s defence of its motherland against Napoleon\'92s Grande Armee is commemorated in which overture by Pyotr Tchaikovsky?\
ANSWER:
\i  
\b \ul 1812\ulnone  Overture
\i0  
\b0 (accept 
\i\b The Year \ul 1812
\i0  
\b0 \ulnone or 
\i\b Festive Overture of \ul 1812
\i0\b0 \ulnone )\
\
12. This disease is characterised by the presence of Negri bodies in Ammon\'92s horn pyramidal cells. A controversial treatment for this disease has been revised to omit use of Ribarivin and is called the Milwaukee Protocol. The incubation period for this disease is often proportional to the distance from the exposure site to the brain as the virus travels along neurones and into the central nervous system before heading to the salivary glands. For 10 points, name this disease, formerly known as hydrophobia that can be contracted from the bite of a \'93mad\'94 dog.\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Rabies
\b0 \ulnone \'a0[prompt on hydrophobia before mention]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\b \cf0 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 13.The assassination of this country\'92s presiding warlord in 1747 led to a 50-year period of anarchy. In 1963, this country\'92s leader initiated a reform program called the White Revolution. The Constitutional Revolution led to the creation of this country\'92s parliament, the Majlis, and ultimately led to the downfall of its Qajar dynasty. Later, the CIA sponsored Operation Ajax in this country to overthrow Mohammad Mosaddeq after its oil industry was nationalised. For 10 points, name this country once ruled by Reza Shah Pahlavi.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Iran\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 14. One work of this man can be considered to take the form of a chemical reaction, and tells of Eduard and Charlotte\'92s experiment in inviting Ottilie and the Captain to their home. In another novel by this author of 
\i Elective Affinities,
\i0  the protagonist reads aloud some poems of Ossian to the wife of Albert. That novel, one of this man\'92s few works in the 
\i Sturm und Drang 
\i0 style, prompted a spate of imitation suicides. A play by this man sees the title character make a deal with Mephistopheles. For 10 points, name this author of 
\i Faust
\i0  and 
\i The Sorrows of Young Werther
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von 
\b \ul Goethe\

\b0 \ulnone \
15. In 1968 his music was used in a 
\i Lyons Maid
\i0  advert, while he used sped-up vocals on a 1967 novelty single pastiching Anthony Newley, which failed to make the charts, entitled 
\i The Laughing Gnome
\i0 .  This man recorded his \'93Berlin Trilogy\'94 of albums with Brian Eno in the late 1970s and wrote the Mott the Hoople hit 
\i All The Young Dudes
\i0 .  Wrongly believed to have different coloured eyes, for ten points, name this British singer-songwriter with real name David Jones, whose UK number one singles include 
\i Ashes to Ashes
\i0  and 
\i Space Oddity
\i0 .\
ANSWER: David 
\b \ul Bowie
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 16.This quantity can be used to estimate one source of the Seebeck effect, phonon-electron drag. Debye modelled this quantity by considering a lattice populated by quantised vibrations, allowing the derivation of this quantity\'92s T-cubed dependence at low temperatures. The Dulong-Petit law holds that this quantity approaches three times the molar gas constant for a mole of any solid substance. For 10 points, name this quantity of energy required to change the temperature of a body by a given amount. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Heat Capacity
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Thermal Capacity\
\

\b0 \ulnone 17. This man based his work 
\i On Books and the Housing of Them
\i0  on his personal library. He resigned as president of the Board of Trade after an increased grant to Maynooth Seminary. In his second spell as Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Cobden-Chevalier treaty reduced tariffs between the UK and France. This only prime minister born in Liverpool irritated Queen Victoria with his way of addressing her. This \'93Grand Old Man\'94 was, for 10 points, what man who served four spells as Prime Minister and was a rival of Benjamin Disraeli?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: William Ewart 
\b \ul Gladstone
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\b \cf0 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 18. The author of this work claimed his intention was to \'93explain a single rule of an ancient Italian priesthood\'94, but this work extended to twelve volumes by the time of its completion. Material on the Crucifixion in this work was moved to an appendix so as to avoid controversy. The Lake of Nemi, known also as Diana\'92s Mirror, is discussed in its first section, \'93The King of the Wood.\'94 A Turner painting inspired by a scene from the 
\i Aeineid 
\i0 in turn inspired the title of this book, which was an attempt to identify the shared elements of the world\'92s religions. For 10 points, name this comparative anthropological study of religion by Sir James Frazer.  \
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Golden Bough\

\i0\b0 \ulnone \
19. This city is separated from the sea by its namesake lake, which is in fact a lagoon with its mouth at La Goulette. A statue of Cardinal Lavigerie once stood symbolically at Bab el-Oued, the gateway to an old town whose Souk al-Birka was once among the world\'92s most infamous slave markets; after 1956, that statue was replaced by one of Ibn Khaldun. The Bardo Museum and Zeitoun Mosque are landmarks of this city, which was once the home of Zine El Abidine Bin Ali. Carthage Airport serves, for 10 points, what capital city of Tunisia?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tunis
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\sl23
\cf0 20. Josef von Sternberg\'92s film 
\i Shanghai Express 
\i0 is an early example of this style, borrowing the baroque techniques of German Expressionism. Gloria Grahame and Robert Mitchum appeared principally in films in this style, including 
\i In a Lonely Place 
\i0 and 
\i Night of the Hunter. 
\i0 Dix Handley and \'93Doc\'94 Riedenschneider team up in one example, and in another Orson Welles plays a crooked Texan cop. 
\i The Asphalt Jungle 
\i0 is an example, for ten points, of what cynical style of filmmaking nearly always in black-and-white.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\sl276\slmult1\sa200
\cf0  Answer:
\b  \ul Film Noir   \ulnone               
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \ul Bonuses\ulnone \
\
1. In this play the title character impresses Pegeen Mike by winning a donkey race. For 10 points each:
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\f0 \cf0 [10] Identify this play in which Christy Mahon attempts on multiple occasions to murder his father.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Playboy of the Western World
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] 
\i The Playboy of the Western World 
\i0 is a work of this Irish playright.\
ANSWER: John Millington 
\b \ul Synge
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Synge\'92s play prompted riots during its first run at this Dublin theatre, the architect of which is Michael Scott.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Abbey
\b0 \ulnone  Theatre or 
\b \ul National Theatre of Ireland
\b0 \ulnone \
\
2.For 10 points each, answer these questions on comets: \
[10] Also known as The Great Comet of 1997, this comet was visible to the naked eye for 18 months through 1996 and 1997, beating the record for the longest period of visibility previously set by the Great Comet of 1811. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Hale-Bopp
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] It is hoped that this European space probe will become the first spacecraft to enter orbit around a comet later this year. It will also deploy a lander called Philae. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Rosetta
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This comet highlighted Jupiter\'92s role as a cosmic vacuum cleaner when it broke apart and collided with Jupiter\'92s surface in July 1994. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Shoemaker-Levy
\b0 \ulnone  9\
\
3. For 10 points each, answer the following about places hazardous to shipping:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\sl23
\cf0 [10] In 
\i The Merchant of Venice
\i0 , Antonio is left heavily in debt after his cargo is wrecked on this sandbank, lying six miles from Deal. It names a battle of the First Anglo-Dutch War, and an annual cricket match was played here at low tide until 2003.  \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Goodwin Sands\ulnone \

\b0 [10] The Saltstraumen and the Moskstraumen in Norway are examples of this powerful type of tidal whirlpool. Edgar Allen Poe wrote a story about \'93A Descent\'94 into one of these.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Maelstrom
\b0 \ulnone  [accept \'93A 
\b \ul Descent into a Maelstrom
\b0 \ulnone \'94]\
[10] More than 600 beachings and wrecks have taken place on this fatefully-named obstacle at the mouth of the Camel Estuary. A popular bitter named for it is brewed in Rock.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Doom Bar
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
4. Answer three questions on Caribbean-born pop stars. For ten points each:\
[10] Which Barbados-born singer, whose real surname is Fenty, has had hits including 
\i Umbrella
\i0 , 
\i Diamonds
\i0  and 
\i We Found Love
\i0 ?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Rihanna\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Which Jamaican dancehall singer with the surname Henriques has had hits with 
\i Get Busy
\i0  and 
\i Like Glue
\i0  and featured on Beyonce's 
\i Baby Boy
\i0 ?\
ANSWER: Sean 
\b \ul Paul
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Born in Trinidad, singer Nicki Minaj dances in a pink bikini on an Hawaiian island in the video to which Europop-influenced hit, which reached #2 in the UK and sold almost 900,000 copies?\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Starships
\b0 \

\i0 \ulnone \
5. \cf3 Fifty years ago this past November, the last American president to be assassinated died in Dallas, Texas. For ten points each:\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf3 [10] According to the Warren Commission, John F. Kennedy was killed by a bullet fired by this man, an attempted Soviet defector who staked out the Texas Schoolbook Depository.\
ANSWER:\'a0Lee Harvey 
\b \ul Oswald\'a0
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Five years later, John\'92s brother, Robert Kennedy, was shot by assassin Sirhan Sirhan in the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel in this US city.\
ANSWER:
\b \'a0\ul Los Angeles
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul LA
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] The following year, their brother Edward Kennedy narrowly avoided making a hat trick when he survived a car crash on Chappaquiddick Island. What was the name of his female companion, who was not so lucky?\
ANSWER: Mary Jo\'a0
\b \ul Kopechne\ulnone  
\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
6. \cf3 For 10 points each, answer the following about the Falklands War:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf3 [10] Lieutenant Colonel Herbert \'93H.\'94 Jones received a posthumous Victoria Cross for his actions at this May 1982 engagement with an avian-sounding name.\
ANSWER: Battle of 
\b \ul Goose Green
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Guardsman Simon Weston suffered severe burns after this ship was bombed at Bluff Cove.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul \ulc3 Sir Galahad
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This British Rear Admiral commanded the British task force sent to retake the Falkland Islands.\
ANSWER: John \'93Sandy\'94 
\b \ul Woodward
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\
7. Answer some questions about ammonia, for 10 points each: \
[10] This process combines nitrogen and hydrogen on the surface of an iron or ruthenium-based catalyst at high pressure to create ammonia. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Haber
\b0 \ulnone  - Bosch process \
[10] The hydrochloride salt of ammonia is reacted with aldehydes to produce these compounds in a process named for Strecker. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Amino acids
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] A solution of sodium amide in ammonia is used produce 2-aminopyridines in this reaction which will also destroy any interesting groups in your target molecule. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Chichibabin
\b0 \ulnone  reaction \
\
8. \'93It ain\'92t over \'91till the fat lady sings.\'94 \'96 FTPE, three bonuses on opera.\
[10] At the end of which grand opera does the heroine, a captive Ethiopian princess, choose to die with her lover, entombed beneath a pyramid ?\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Aida
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Perhaps the archetypal operatic fat lady is which buxom Valkyrie in Richard Wagner\'92s 
\i Gotterdammerung
\i0 , who dies after singing an aria lasting almost twenty minutes at the opera\'92s conclusion?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Brunnhilde
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Which opera by Alfredo Catalani contains an unstageable final scene in which the heroine ends it all by throwing herself into an avalanche in the Swiss Alps?  It was used in the 1981 French film 
\i Diva
\i0 .\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul La Wally
\b0 \ulnone \
\
9. Answer these questions about a very long series of very long books, which, everyone, of course, has read in the original French, for 10 points each:\
[10] The title of this series of seven novels by Marcel Proust is translated in multiple ways, though the original title of the Moncrief translation has fallen out of favour.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul In Search of Lost Time
\b0 \ulnone  
\i0 or 
\i\b \ul Remembrance of Things Past
\b0 \ulnone  
\i0  or 
\i\b \ul \'c0 la recherche du temps perdu
\i0 \

\b0 \ulnone [10] In this, the first volume of 
\i In Search of Lost Time
\i0 , the central character begins a series of reminiscences after partaking of a madeleine.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Swann\'92s Way
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This member of the Swann family, for which the first volume is titled, is a committed Dreyfusard and is married to Odette, known also as \'93the lady in pink.\'94\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Charles
\b0 \ulnone  Swann\

\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 10. \cf3 This politician was a dictator for fifteen years; he subsequently made a comeback and served three years as a democratically elected president. For 10 points each:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf3 [10] Name this nationalist and populist who presided over the Estado Novo in Brazil.\
ANSWER: Get\'falio (Dornelles) 
\b \ul Vargas
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Get\'faolio Vargas ultimately was head of state of Brazil longer than any other person save for this emperor.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pedro II
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on \'93Pedro\'94]\
[10] Vargas tried to transform the political system dominated by the landed gentries of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais. This phrase was commonly given to that political system because of the two dominant agricultural products of those two states.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul caf\'e9 com leite
\i0\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul coffee with milk
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
11. Answer some questions on the apostles of Jesus, for 10 points each:\
[10] Which apostle of Jesus is believed to have been martyred in Syria in around 65AD and is the patron saint of lost causes?\
ANSWER: St 
\b \ul Jude
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Thaddeus
\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] Which apostle of Jesus has a feast day on 24 August, the date of a turning point in the 16th century French Wars of Religion?\
ANSWER: St 
\b \ul Bartholomew
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Nathaniel
\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] Which apostle of Jesus was also known as Didymus or the Twin?\
ANSWER: St 
\b \ul Thomas
\b0 \ulnone \

\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 12. The final stanza of this poem tells of \'93brutish necessity\'94 wiping its hands once again \'93upon the napkin of a dirty cause.\'94 For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this Derek Walcott poem that describes corpses \'93scattered through a paradise\'94\
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul A Far Cry From Africa
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
[10] Another Caribbean author is this female writer of
\i  
\i0 the novel 
\i Wide Sargasso Sea\

\i0 ANSWER: Jean 
\b \ul Rhys
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Jean Rhys\'92s 
\i Wide Sargasso Sea 
\i0 is about the life of Bertha before the events of this Charlotte Br\'f6nte novel.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Jane Eyre\

\i0 \

\b0 \ulnone 13. Answer these three questions on Madagascan wildlife. For ten points each:\
[10] This primate's name derives from a name for \'93ghosts\'94 or \'93spirits\'94 in Roman mythology, and it has types called ring-tailed and ruffed.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Lemur\ulnone \

\b0 [10] This type of Lemur, the world\'92s largest nocturnal primate, has sharp rodent like teeth and a very distinctive long thin middle finger.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Aye-Aye\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Related to the mongoose family, which cat-like carnivore of the 
\i Eupleridae
\i0  family has lemurs as its main diet?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Fossa\

\b0 \ulnone \
14. Answer some questions about economics, for 10 points each:\
[10] Carl Menger\'92s 1871 treatise 
\i The Principles of Economics
\i0  was one of the first to advance the theory of marginal utility and is widely regarded as the foundation of which school of economics?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Austrian
\b0 \ulnone  school\
[10] This member of the Austrian school wrote \'93economics deals with society\'92s fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all; it is the main and proper study of every citizen\'94 in his book 
\i Human Action
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Ludwig 
\b \ul von Mises
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This Austrian-born British economist\'92s 
\i The Constitution of Liberty
\i0  was \'93what we believe\'94, according to Margaret Thatcher.\
ANSWER: Friedrich 
\b \ul Hayek
\b0 \
\ulnone \
15. Answer some questions about a murderous painter, for 10 points each:\
[10] This painter, who killed Rannuccio Tomassoni in a brawl, painted a particularly violent version of 
\i Judith Beheading Holofernes\

\i0 ANSWER: Michelangelo Merisi o Amerighi de
\b \ul  Caravaggio
\i \ulnone 	\

\i0\b0 [10] This style of painting of often considered an invention Caravaggio\'92s. It focuses on fairly dark colours with chiaroscuro being heavily used.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tenebrism\ulnone \

\b0 [10] What is the name of the Caravaggio painting, which survives in two versions, that shows a youthful Christ blessing a simple meal of roast fowl, bread, and fruits, while his dinner companions back away from the table in amazement?\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Supper at Emmaus
\b0 \

\i0 \cf3 \ulnone \
\cf0 16. Glucose is the primary substrate from which many organisms extract energy. For ten points each:\
[10] Name the cytoplasmic process by which glucose is metabolised into pyruvate, the first stage of aerobic metabolism and almost the entirety of anaerobic metabolism.\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Glycolysis
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In both glycolysis and the subsequent Krebs cycle, electrons extracted from glucose by enzymes such as alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase are used to reduce this dinucleotide coenzyme\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul NAD
\b0 \ulnone +\'a0or\'a0
\b \ul Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
\b0 \ulnone  [Do not accept NADP+ or NADPH]\
[10] NAD passes those electrons to the electron transport chain. Which other coenzyme, often referred to as Coenzyme Q\sub 10\nosupersub ,\sub \'a0\nosupersub is responsible for shuttling the electrons from Complexes I or II to Complex III?\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Ubiquinone\ulnone \'a0
\b0 or\'a0
\b \ul Ubidecaranone\
\

\b0 \ulnone 17. \cf3 For 10 points each, name these explorers of the modern day United States:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf3 [10] This explorer led the first European expedition to Florida, which he named. He also became the first Governor of Puerto Rico by appointment of the Spanish crown. Alas, he did not find the Fountain of Youth.\
ANSWER: Juan\'a0
\b \ul Ponce de Le\'f3n
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on partial answer]\
[10] This conquistador was trying to go to Florida when the expedition he was leading encountered a storm. He drowned; the only four survivors washed up very far to the west on the island of Galveston.\
ANSWER: P\'e1nfilo de 
\b \ul Narv\'e1ez
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This explorer was one of four survivors of the 1527 Narv\'e1ez expedition to colonize the Gulf Coast of the modern day United States. In 1542, he\'a0published an account of his American travels titled 
\i La Relaci\'f3n
\i0 .\
ANSWER: \'c1lvar N\'fa\'f1ez\'a0
\b \ul Cabeza de Vaca
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on partial answer]
\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 18. Answer these bonuses on scenic cricket grounds. For ten points each:\
[10] Bowlers run in from Kelvin Grove End or Wynberg End at this ground. It is overlooked by the sandstone outcrop of Devil\'92s Peak.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Newlands\ulnone  
\b0 (prompt on \'93Cape Town\'94)\
[10] Situated on the left bank of the Hooghly, this stadium is overlooked by four enormous floodlight towers painted red and white. Ian Botham chose to have his portrait painted inside this ground.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Eden Gardens\ulnone  
\b0 (prompt on \'93Calcutta\'94)\
[10] A green gasometer stands hard by this ground\'92s Peter May Stand. Famed for its passionate West Indian crowds in the 1970s, it also hosted the first FA Cup Final.\
ANSWER: Kennington
\b  \ul Oval\
\

\b0 \ulnone 19. Her father is the captain of the ship the 
\i Hoptoad
\i0 . For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this super strong child with ginger pigtails.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf3 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pippi Longstocking\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Pippi Longstocking was created by this Swedish children\'92s author.\
ANSWER: Astrid 
\b \ul Lindgren
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Pippi Longstocking lives in this house with her monkey, Mr. Nilsson.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Villa Villekulla\
\

\b0 \ulnone 20. As a wise man once said- \'93Put on your yarmulke, here comes Hanukkah\'94! For ten points each:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf3 [10] Hanukkah celebrates the rebellion by this group of Jews, whose name means \'93hammer\'94. They were against the Hellenization of Jewish culture.\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Maccabbees
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The rebellion was targeted at this King of the Seleucid Empire who had outlawed various Jewish traditions such as circumcision.\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Antiochus\ulnone \'a0
\b0 I Epiphanes\'a0\
[10] This event is now celebrated with the lighting of the Hannukiah, a specialised version of which ceremonial candelabrum that could be found in the Temple?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\sl276\slmult1\sa200
\cf3 ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Menorah  \ulnone                               }