{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;}
{\info
{\title Oxford Open 2014- Do You Want to Get with Women}
{\author Ewan MacAulay}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\vieww13740\viewh14520\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri62\sl200\qj

\f0\b\fs34 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\

\b0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, P.J. Berry, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Round 3\
Buzz Early Buzz Often + UV Catastrophe
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Tossups\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ulnone 1. One type of this disease can be treated with Bortezomib, the first proteasome inhibitor approved for therapeutic use. That type of this disease is often typified by an overexpression of cyclin D1 and is known as the mantle cell variant. One type of this disease causes Pel-Ebstein fevers and is characterised by multinucleate Reed-Sternberg cells. Another type of this disease arises from a translocation of chromosomes 8 and 14, often due to Epstein-Barr virus infection. For 10 points, give this cancer of B or T cells, with variants such as Burkitt\'92s and Hodgkin.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Lymphoma
\b0 \ulnone  [accept myeloma before \'91cyclin D1\'92]\
\
2. According to Stanislav Andreski, much of the high regard for this man came from him \'93threatening people with mathematics\'94. This man claimed that Native American trickster myths mediate between the opposing concepts of life and death. This man argued that kinship was based on the marriage of two families rather than descent from a common ancestor in 
\i The Elementary Structures of Kinship
\i0  and his travels during the 1930s are chronicled in 
\i Tristes Tropiques
\i0 . For ten points, 
\i The Savage Mind
\i0  is a work by which French anthropologist?
\f1 \uc0\u8232 
\f0 ANSWER: Claude 
\b \ul L\'e9vi-Strauss
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 \
3. In the seventh stanza of this poem, the narrator sees a cricket-match, a cinema, and a cooling-tower. This poem describes a train journey to London, through Lincolnshire, setting out at about one-twenty on a Saturday. In the course of the journey, the narrator sees twelve of the title ceremonies take place. This poem gave its name to a collection of poems that also included \'93For Sidney Bechet\'94, \'93Mr. Bleaney\'94, and \'93An Arundel Tomb\'94.\'a0 For ten points, identify this poem by Philip Larkin, named for the seventh Sunday after Easter.\
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul The Whitsun Weddings
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
\
4. This politician chaired the committee that resolved the so-called \'93Bread and Roses\'94 textile strike. He became president of his state\'92s senate after the defeat of Levi Greenwood, after which he delivered a famous speech commanding people to \'93Have Faith in Massachusetts.\'94 He clashed with the American Federation of Labor to put down the Boston Police Strike. His running mate was Charles Dawes when he defeated John Davis in 1924. For 10 points, name this \'93silent\'94 U.S. president who became president upon the death of Warren Harding.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qj
\cf0 ANSWER: Calvin 
\b \ul Coolidge
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qj
\cf0 5.  The Brayton cycle is sometimes named for this man, who, independently of von Mayer, formulated the idea of the mechanical equivalent of heat. This man\'92s second law states that the internal energy of an ideal gas is independent of pressure and volume and depends only on its temperature. The process where the temperature of a fluid changes as it undergoes an adiabatic expansion is named for this man and William Thomson. For ten points, name this English physicist who names the SI unit of energy.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0 \cf0 ANSWER: James Prescott 
\b \ul Joule
\b0 \ulnone \
\
6. This country\'92s city of Dobele is built over an asteroid impact crater. The westernmost region of this country, which is home to the western part of the Jelgava Plain, is known as Courland. This country\'92s second most populous city, Daugavpils, is located on the Daugava River, which is also known as the Western Dvina. Ventspils is the largest port of this country that is indented by a gulf sharing its name with its capital. For 10 points, name this Baltic country south of Estonia whose capital city is Riga.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Latvia
\b0 \ulnone \
\
7. Diogenes of Oenoanda carved the doctrines of this philosophical school on to a portico wall in the second century AD. The 
\i Letter to Herodotus
\i0  and the 
\i Letter to Meneoceus 
\i0 summarize the key doctrines of this school of thought.  The Roman poet Lucretius was an adherent of this philosophy, which he explained in his poem 
\i On the Nature of Things
\i0 . Plutarch\'92s essay claiming that it is impossible to live well in accordance with this philosophy reflects the hostility to it from Platonists and Stoics. For ten points, name this ancient school of thought, which held that the highest goods were pleasure and the absence of pain.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Epicureanism\
\

\b0 \ulnone 8. This woman was the most married queen, having previously been married to Edward Borough and John Neville before becoming queen. Her two books, 
\i Prayers or Meditations
\i0  and 
\i The Lamentations of a Sinner
\i0 , were the first publications in England by a woman under her own name. Her fourth husband was Thomas Seymour, and she served as the official guardian for Elizabeth I when the latter was still young. For 10 points, name this first Queen of England and Ireland who was the surviving sixth wife of Henry VIII.\
ANSWER: Catherine 
\b \ul Parr
\b0 \ulnone \
\
9. In one poem, this author contrasts how Julius Caesar wept over the head of Pompey with his beloved\'92s failure to show him any pity. After discovering the 
\i ad Atticum
\i0 , a collection of letters by Cicero, this man composed a series of letters to the orator. Another of his letters is a description of his climb up Mount Ventoux, and many of his \'93scattered rhymes\'94 are addressed to Laura. For 10 points, name this Italian namesake of a variety of sonnet. \
ANSWER: Francesco 
\b \ul Petrarca
\b0 \ulnone  or
\b \ul  Petrarch
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\
10. Stravinsky\'92s 
\i Elegy for J.F.K.
\i0  features three of these instruments accompanying a baritone or mezzo-soprano. This instrument appears solo in John Adams\'92s 
\i Gnarly Buttons,
\i0  and Franz Schubert\'92s Lied 
\i The Shepherd on the Rock
\i0  features a soprano and this instrument alongside a piano. Weber wrote two concertos, in F minor and E-flat major, as well as a concertino for this instrument, which also plays the famous opening glissando in Gershwin's 
\i Rhapsody in Blue
\i0 . Mozart's Concerto for this instrument is in A major. For ten points, Anton Stadler, Acker Bilk, and Benny Goodman are all best known for playing which single-reed woodwind instrument?
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Clarinet
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qj
\cf0 11. The hum associated with these devices is due to a rapid expansion and contraction with each magnetic cycle known as magnetostriction. The audio type of this device is used to block radio frequency interference and the EMF of one of these devices can be increased by operating it at a higher frequency. \'a0These devices are laminated to reduce eddy currents, and hysteresis losses occur each time the magnetic field is reversed. For 10 points, name these electrical devices used to step up and down voltage.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Transformer
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 \
12. In the 2008 \'91Brunellopoli\'92 fraud scandal, producers were accused of illegally including grape varieties other than this one in their wines, breaking DOCG rules. This grape variety constitutes the majority of the blend of Antinori\'92s Tignanello, unlike most \'91Super Tuscans\'92 which are predominantly composed of international varieties. The name of this grape variety is derived from the Latin for \'91Jupiter\'92s blood\'92. High in tannins, for 10 points, name this Tuscan grape variety which must constitute at least 75% of Chianti DOCG wines.
\f2 \

\f0 ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Sangiovese
\f2\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 \
13. This ruler gained control of the fortress of N\'f6teborg by the Treaty of Stolbovo, which ended the Ingrian War, and then feuded with Sigismund III of Poland until he signed the Treaty of Altmark 1629. In a later conflict, this man who was advised by Axel Oxenstierna defeated Count von Tilly at the Battle of Breitenfeld, but was killed one year later in his country\'92s victory at the Battle of Lutzen. For 10 points, name this king who ruled Sweden at the beginning of the Thirty Years\'92 War as the \'93Lion of the North.\'94\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Gustav
\b0 \ulnone  II 
\b \ul Adolf
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Gustavus Adolphus
\b0 \ulnone ; prompt on partial answer]\
\
14. This work describes a novel called Maja, and an epic prose poem about the life of Frederick the Great. The central character of this work originally goes to Pula, but soon moves on. After visiting the barber and having his hair dyed, the narrator recognizes a resemblance between himself and an old man who appalled him not long before. This work charts the central character\'92s developing obsession with the young Tadzio, which makes him ignore the cholera epidemic that is happening in the title Italian city. For ten points, name this novella by Thomas Mann.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Der Tod in Venedig
\i0\b0 \ulnone  or 
\i\b \ul Death in Venice
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
15. As an 18-year old amateur, this man won the mixed doubles at the French Open with Mary Carillo, and he won his first Grand Slam title by defeating Vitas Gerulaitis in the 1979 US Open final. Peter Fleming said that the best doubles partnership in the world was \'93This man and anyone\'94, and in 1984 this man set the record for the best year on the ATP Tour, racking up 82 wins and 3 losses. This man won a fourth-set tiebreak 18-16 against Bjorn Borg but went on to lose the match. For 10 points, name this American tennis player who told an umpire \'93YOU CANNOT BE SERIOUS!\'94 \
ANSWER: John 
\b \ul McEnroe\

\b0 \ulnone \
16. The wife of a gigolo, herself a milliner, provides a place of work for the sister of the protagonist of this novel. A scheme to inherit a large sum of money fails after Walter Bray dies and the will Arthur Gride stole is recovered, thereby sparing the protagonist\'92s love interest from a horrible marriage. In defense of his friend Smike, the protagonist beats the headmaster of Dotheboys House, Wackford Squeers. The failure of the dastardly Ralph\'92s plots to foil his nephew cause him to take his own life. For 10 points, name this Dickens novel, the title character of which tries to support his sister and mother.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nicholas Nickleby
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qj
\cf0 17. It\'92s not Cherenkov radiation, but this type of radiation is faintly visible to observers who are accustomed to a darkened room as a blue glow seeming to originate within the eye. This type of radiation is emitted when an electron in copper transitions from the L shell to the K shell, in a process which is used to provide a source in crystallography. This type of radiation was inelastically scattered by electrons in the first observation of the Compton Effect. Sometimes known as R\'f6ntgen radiation, for 10 points, name this type of electromagnetic radiation whose wavelength lies between UV and gamma rays.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul x-rays
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 \
18. A cover of this song appeared as a B-side to Bowling For Soup\'92s 2011 single \'93I\'92ve Never Done Anything Like This\'94 and this song has an intro similar to The Cars\'92 \'93Just What I Needed\'94. A boy knocks over a bird nesting box while mowing the lawn in the video for this track, which appears on the album Welcome Interstate Managers. A girl catches the boy masturbating at the end of the video of this song, which proclaims \'93since your dad walked out, your mom could use a guy like me\'94. \'a0For ten points, name this Fountains of Wayne song in which the title person \'93has got it going on\'94.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Stacy\'92s Mom
\f1 \ulnone \

\f0\b0 \
19. The tile covered sculpture 
\i Dona i Ocell
\i0  was created by this man. In 2011 a mosaic by this artist, displayed at Wichita State, was taken down for restorations. This artist of 
\i Personnage Oiseaux
\i0  painted
\i  
\i0 a ladder that is yellow on the left and white on the right stretches from out of the frame up to the black sky in one work. Yellow and purple forms dance around in a beige room in one work by this painter of 
\i Dog Barking at the Moon
\i0 . For ten points, name this Catalan surrealist artist of 
\i Harlequin\'92s Carnival
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Joan 
\b \ul Mir\'f3
\b0 \ulnone  i Ferr\'e0
\f1 \

\f0 \
20. The capital of this country was the site of an August 1967 Arab League summit that preserved the state of belligerency toward Israel; two years later, this country became governed by Gaafar Nimeiry. It first gained semi-independence, united with its northern neighbor, in a \'93condominium.\'94 This modern-day country was where Muhammad Ahmad defeated Charles George Gordon. For 10 points, name this country where Herbert Kitchener defeated the successor of the Mahdi at the Battle of Omdurman to capture Khartoum.
\f3\fs66 \

\f0\fs34 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Sudan
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qj
\cf0 21. This chemical reacts with carbon dioxide under basic conditions in the Kolbe-Schmitt Reaction to form salicylic acid and it can be nitrated three times to form picric acid. This chemical\'92s main production method is through the partial oxidation of cumene via the Hock rearrangement. Partial hydrogenation of this compound gives cyclohexanone and boiling it with zinc dust reduces it to benzene. For 10 points, name this aromatic alcohol which is also known as carbolic acid.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul phenol
\b0 \ulnone  (accept \'91carbolic acid\'92 before mentioned)
\f1 \

\f0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ul Bonuses\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ulnone 1. Answer some questions about an American man of letters, for 10 points each:\
[10] This author, whose pen name is derived from his time as a steamboat pilot, first found success as a writer with the short story \'93The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County\'94\
ANSWER: Mark 
\b \ul Twain
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This Mark Twain novel tells of a time traveller who finds himself reforming much of the economy of Camelot.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur\'92s Court
\b0 \ulnone \

\i0 [10] This memoir of Twain\'92s tells of his time as a steamboat pilot, specifically detailing one journey he made from St. Louis to New Orleans.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Life on the Mississippi
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
2. One especially problematic policy during this period was a campaign to make peasants kill sparrows. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this period, beginning in 1956, in which peasants were encouraged to practice close cropping and backyard steel furnaces.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Great Leap Forward
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Dayuejin
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] After this Defense Minister criticized the Great Leap Forward at the Lushan Conference, Mao dismissed him from his post.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Peng
\b0 \ulnone  Dehuai\
[10] In the midst of the Great Leap Forward, a rebellion broke out in this Chinese territory, eventually forcing its spiritual leader to flee to Dharamsala in India.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tibet
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Xizang
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
3. Answer these questions about Mormon history and theology for ten points each.\
[10] According to Mormon beliefs, this man is a prophet like Moses, and was visited by an angel near his farm in western New York in 1823.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Joseph\ulnone  \ul Smith
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This man, believed to be the last of the original authors of the Book of Mormon, was resurrected as an Angel and led Joseph Smith to the Golden Plates which Smith then translated.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Moroni
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx1100\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 [10] This one of the four groups to have settled the Americas takes their name from the only son of Zedekiah to survive, and they later merged with the Nephites.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mulekites
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Mulek
\b0 \ulnone )\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
4. This man composed incidental music to Henrik Ibsen\'92s play, 
\i Peer Gynt
\i0 . For ten points each:
\f1 \

\f0 [10] Name this Norwegian composer.\
ANSWER: Edvard 
\b \ul Grieg
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] This five-movement work, composed to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the birth of the Danish-Norwegian playwright it was named for, was originally written for piano, but was later reworked for a string orchestra.\
ANSWER:
\b  
\i \ul Holberg Suite
\f1\i0\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] Upon Grieg showing him this overture, Niels Gade supposedly responded with \'93This is trash, Grieg; go home and write something better.\'94 The opening 
\i Andante
\i0  contains a warm, flowing woodwind melody alongside orchestral chords in D major, which leads into a furious D minor 
\i Allegro
\i0 .	\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul In Autumn
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
5. In the background of this painting, soldier can be seen pulling a woman\'92s hair. For ten points each:
\f1 \

\f0 [10] Name this \'91lost\'92 painting, depicting Herod\'92s infanticide.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Massacre of the Innocents
\f1\i0\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] 
\i Massacre of the Innocents
\i0  and 
\i Samson and Delilah
\i0  are works by this artist who enjoyed painting rotund women.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: Peter Paul 
\b \ul Rubens
\f1 \

\f0\b0 \ulnone [10] In this Rubens painting a man in a red turban is attempting to stab the title creature with a spear from atop his horse.
\f1 \uc0\u8232 
\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul The Hippopotamus
\b0 \ulnone  and Crocodile 
\b \ul Hunt
\b0 \ulnone  (they don\'92t need to say \'93and crocodile\'94)\
\
6. Casaubon, Belbo and Diotallevi develop their own conspiracy theory called The Plan, in this novel. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this novel in which the Count of St. Germain appears in ectoplasmic form in front of the title object.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Foucault\'92s Pendulum
\i0\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\i\b \ul Il pendolo di Foucault
\b0 \ulnone ]
\b \ul \

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] In addition to 
\i Foucault\'92s Pendulum
\i0 , this man wrote 
\i The Name of the Rose
\i0  and a pair of books on aesthetics titled 
\i On Beauty
\i0  and 
\i On Ugliness.
\i0 \
ANSWER: Umberto 
\b \ul Eco\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This most recent novel of Eco\'92s further indulges his love of conspiracy theories by weaving together, among other popular topics, the Templars, the Illuminati, Dreyfuss Affair and 
\i The Protocols of the Elders of Zion
\i0 . \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Prague Cemetery\

\i0\b0 \ulnone \
7. For 10 points each, answer the following about the Texan Revolution:\
[10] In this March 1836 battle fought in San Antonio, a Texan force under William  Travis and James Bowie was wiped out by Santa Anna\'92s Army.\
ANSWER: Battle of the 
\b \ul Alamo
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Also in March 1836, Santa Anna\'92s forces killed 342 Texan Prisoners in this massacre, which was perpetrated on Palm Sunday.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Goliad
\b0 \ulnone  Massacre\
[10] The first major Texan success during the Texan Revolution was a siege of the modern-day city of San Antonio in 1835. That battle is usually given this name, taken from the name then given to the city.\
ANSWER: Siege of 
\b \ul B\'e9xar
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Bejar
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qj
\cf0 8. Medusa can refer to these animals as well as a figure from Greek mythology. For 10 points each:
\f1 \

\f0 [10] Name these aquatic invertebrates, generally transparent or translucent, famed for their stinging tentacles.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul jellyfish
\b0 \ulnone , [accept 
\b \ul Medusozoa
\b0 \ulnone ]
\f1\b \ul \

\f0\b0 \ulnone [10] The sting of a jellyfish is delivered by these specialised cells, which are characteristic of the phylum cnidaria.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nematocysts
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] Some jellyfish have limited vision thanks to these light-sensitive organs. They cannot form an image but do respond to light.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0 \cf0 ANSWER: pigment spot 
\b \ul ocelli
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 \
9. For ten points each, answer these questions on footballers with 100 or more international caps.
\f1 \

\f0 [10] This current Real Madrid goalkeeper and Spain captain holds the most international caps of any Spanish player.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: Iker 
\b \ul Casillas
\b0 \ulnone  Fern\'e1ndez
\f1 \

\f0 [10] This LA Galaxy forward is rapidly closing in on Cobi Jones\'92s 164 cap US record.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: Landon 
\b \ul Donovan
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] The current most-capped soccer player in the world is this Egyptian midfielder, who won 184 caps between 1995 and 2012.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: Ahmed 
\b \ul Hassan
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 \
10. These molecules are double-stranded, circular and are often found in bacteria. For ten points each:\
[10] Name these DNA molecules with the ability to replicate independently of chromosomal DNA.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Plasmids
\b0 \
\ulnone [10] These proteinaceous appendages allow bacteria to exchange plasmids in a process known as bacterial conjugation \
ANSWER: Sex 
\b \ul pili
\b0 \ulnone  [or conjugative pili, 
\i singular:
\i0  pilus]\
[10] This biologist and artificial intelligence researcher discovered the process of bacterial conjugation alongside Edward Tatum; they later shared a Nobel prize.\
\pard\tx6285\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: Joshua 
\b \ul Lederberg
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
11. As this novel begins 
\i in medias res 
\i0 and does not finish with a full stop, its first and final lines can be concatenated. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this novel, on the first page of which appears a 100-letter neologism meant to represent the sound of thunder associated with Adam and Eve\'92s banishment from Eden.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Finnegans Wake\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] This author of 
\i Finnegans Wake 
\i0 also wrote about how Leopold Bloom spent the 16\super th\nosupersub  of June in 1904 in 
\i Ulysses
\i0 .\
ANSWER: James 
\b \ul Joyce\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Joyce\'92s love letters to this woman, his wife, include some choice lines, such as \'93you had an arse full of farts that night, darling, and I fucked them out of you.\'94\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nora
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul Barnacle 
\b0 \ulnone (accept either)\
\
12. British troops opened fire on an unarmed crowd in this city in 1919, killing hundreds. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this city, a Sikh holy city that is home to the Golden Temple.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Amritsar
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul Amritsar
\b0 \ulnone  Massacre]\
[10] This British officer, who was censured in the official inquiry, commanded the British troops who fired on the crowd in Amritsar.\
ANSWER: Reginald 
\b \ul Dyer
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The crowds that gathered in Amritsar were protesting this series of laws, which extended the wartime \'93emergency measures\'94 that the British used to govern India.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Rowlatt
\b0 \ulnone  Acts\
\
13. There are some lonely people in the world. The setter of this question is one of them. For 10 points each, answer these questions on internet dating websites:
\f1 \

\f0 [10] This website set up a sister site for same sex dating called Compatible Partners following lawsuits over the fact they only catered for heterosexual singles. It is perhaps better known for a viral online dating video featuring \'93Debbie\'94, who \'93just loves cats\'94.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul eHarmony
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] This website, founded by Gary Kremen in 1993, was accused in 2005 of covertly employing people as \'93date bait\'94, people who message and flirt with users to dissuade them from cancelling their subscriptions.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul match.com
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] This website, whose tagline is \'93Life is short. Have an affair\'94, has failed in numerous at sponsoring things, including trams in Toronto, Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport and the New Meadowlands stadium in New Jersey.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul AshleyMadison
\b0 .com\ulnone  (yes, we could have had the AshleyMadison.com Stadium and the Ashley Madison International Airport.)
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qj
\cf0 14. It is produced by heating gibbsite strongly, and is the desired product of the Bayer process. For 10 points each:
\f1 \

\f0 [10] Name this compound whose crystalline phase is corundum.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul aluminium
\b0  
\b oxide
\b0 \ulnone  accept 
\b \ul alumina
\f1 \

\f0\b0 \ulnone [10] Aluminium oxide is one of this type of species, which is able to neutralise both acids and bases.
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul amphoteric
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] Aluminium oxide can be used as a catalyst in this process where elemental sulphur is extracted from hydrogen sulphide gas.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0 \cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Claus
\b0 \ulnone  process
\f1 \

\f0 \
15. This river is also known as the Tsangpo when it flows through China. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this river that joins the distributaries of the Ganges before flowing into the Bay of Bengal in Bangladesh.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Brahmaputra
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The Brahmaputra flows into this main distributary of the Ganges.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Padma
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] One prominent city on the Brahmaputra is Guwahati, the most populous city in this large state in the northeastern part of India.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Assam
\b0 \ulnone \
\
16. Answer these questions about a pioneer of applying meditation in medical settings to relieve stress and chronic pain, for 10 points each:\
[10] Name this Professor Emeritus of Medicine, author of books including 
\i Full Catastrophe Living 
\i0 and 
\i Wherever You Go, There You Are
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Jon\ul  
\b Kabat-Zinn
\b0 \
\ulnone [10] Initially piloted at the University of Massachussets and now used world-wide in clinical and other settings, which eight-week course did Kabat-Zinn develop, combining guided instruction in mindfulness meditation practices with a general approach to increased awareness.\ul \
\ulnone ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mindfulness-based Stress Reduction
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul MBSR
\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] Kabat-Zinn adapted the teachings of Thich Nhat Hanh in developing the MBSR course. Which religion did these teachings stem from?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Zen
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul Buddhism
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Buddhism
\b0 \ulnone )\ul \
\ulnone \
\
17. For 10 points each, answer some questions about lasers: \
[10] Many lasers emit beams whose transverse intensity distributions are well approximated by this distribution, named for a German mathematician. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Gaussian
\b0 \ulnone  distribution \
[10] These two light noble gases are often used to build a laser which emits red light at a wavelength of 632.8 nanometres. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul He/Ne
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Helium/Neon\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Lasers were used to cool atoms of this element to within a fraction of a degree of absolute zero to create the first observed Bose-Einstein condensate. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Rubidium
\b0\fs38 \ulnone \

\fs34 \
18. Answer some questions about Persian literature, for 10 points each:\
[10] Quoted by Barack Obama as saying \'93The children of Adam are limbs to each other, having been created of one essence,\'94 this Persian author\'92s collection of poems and stories, the 
\i Gulistan, 
\i0 is called \'93The Rose Garden\'94 in English.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Saadi 
\b0 \ulnone Shirazi\
[10] Edward FitzGerald translated the 
\i Rubaiyat
\i0 , a collection of quatrains, by this poet and polymath.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Omar Khayyam\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This epic work of Farid ud-Din Attar describes the title creates quest for the Simurgh.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Conference of the Birds
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
19. For 10 points each, answer the following about prime ministers of Australia:\
[10] This Australian prime minister led the Western delegation that tried to forge a compromise with Gamal Abdel Nasser after the nationalization of the Suez Canal in 1956. He was Australia\'92s longest-serving prime minister.\
ANSWER: Robert 
\b \ul Menzies
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This Australian prime minister used the slogan \'93All the way with LBJ\'94 to increase Australian involvement in the Vietnam War, but he is most famous for disappearing at Cheviot Beach in 1967.\
ANSWER: Harold 
\b \ul Holt
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Both Robert Menzies and Harold Holt were members of this political party, which is back in power in Australia under Tony Abbott.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Liberal
\b0 \ulnone  Party\
\
20. A cover of this track appeared on the soundtrack to 2004's Garden State. For 10 points each:
\f1 \

\f0 [10] Name this song which features the lines "I'm thinking it's a sign that the freckles in our eyes are mirror images and when we kiss they're perfectly aligned"
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Such Great Heights
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] Such Great Heights was originally by this indie rock supergroup whose only album to date was 
\i Give Up
\f1\i0 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul The Postal Service
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 [10] The Postal Service's Ben Gibbard is best known as the front man of this other band, which takes its name from a song by the Bonzo Dog Doo Dah Band
\f1 \

\f0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Death Cab for Cutie
\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0 \
\
\
}