{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11960\viewh14060\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200\qj

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200\qj

\b0 \cf0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Round 8\
Forge Masters\ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri702\sl200
\cf0 \ulc0 \
Tossups\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 \ulnone 1. In category theory, every functor with a left adjoint induces one of these objects, and morphisms between free algebras for these are sometimes called \'93Kleisli arrows\'94. In computer science they can be used to model non-deterministic functions and processes with side effects such as input and output and they are defined in terms of the operations \'93bind\'94 and \'93return\'94. Another concept sees entities with this name as infinite, in harmony and having unique, ever-changing perceptions. For 10 points, name this term which can refer to mind-like entities that make up the world in the philosophy of Leibniz.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul monad
\b0 \ulnone s\ul \
\pard\tx2745\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 2. This character tells her companion that a poem entitled \'91Charade\'92 is about courtship rather than mermaids or sharks. While eating strawberries, this character tells a family friend that she is dull and too talkative and she describes Robert Martin as \'93remarkably plain\'94 and \'93clownish\'94. She is shocked when Mrs Weston tells her that Jane Fairfax and Frank Churchill are engaged. This character\'92s father doesn\'92t want to move to Donwell Hall after this character\'92s marriage to Mr Knightly. For 10 points, name the only title character in the major novels of Jane Austen.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Emma
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul Woodhouse
\b0 \ulnone  [accept either underlined part]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 3. This man argued philosophers should not attribute solicitation and conation to inanimate objects in 
\i De Motu
\i0 . James Jurin\'92s 
\i Geometry no Friend to Infidelity
\i0  attacks this man for a \'93horrid calumny\'94 against mathematicians. As well as writing 
\i The Analyst, 
\i0 this man posed 392 pointed questions 
\i The Querist
\i0 . He argued there is no external reality, just ideas planted in our minds by God. In another work he uses characters from mythology to attack John Locke. For 10 points, name this author who proposed 
\i esse est percipi
\i0  in 
\i A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge
\i0  and wrote 
\i Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonius
\i0 .\
ANSWER: George 
\b \ul Berkeley
\b0 \ulnone , Bishop of Cloyne\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 4. Three owl-headed cherubs appear in one painting by this artist that also shows Ingratitude and Avarice carrying Ignorance across a pond alongside a hermaphrodite monkey. As well as 
\i Pallas Expelling the Vices from the Garden of Virtue
\i0 , this artist depicted an anointing jar on a marble slab and two mourners with the title foreshortened figure. A rider appears in the in the clouds in one of three of this artist\'92s works showing a certain saint shot with arrows. For 10 points, name this artist known for his depictions of Saint Sebastian and 
\i The Lamentation Over the Dead Christ
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Andrea 
\b \ul Mantegna
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 5. Mid-IR analysis of this object by Andy Rivkin showed that its surface is comprised of carbonates, brucite and iron-rich clays not ammoniated clays or water ice as previously believed. Ian McKinnon has proposed that this object fits the Nice model, accreting as a TNO and migrating. This object\'92s density implies that it contains more freshwater than Earth, and McCord and Sotin suggested that it has differentiated into having a rocky core and an icy mantle. Along with Vesta, this object will be studied in 2015 by the 
\i Dawn
\i0  mission. For 10 points, name this smallest dwarf planet, the only one in the inner solar system.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ceres
\b0 \ulnone \
\
6. One character in this novel claims to be a friend of the highwayman Tom King. A servant girl in this novel makes a walking aid in the style of Jacquet-Droz in order to walk through the night, although a stray dog later drags her. In this novel featuring Jan Coggan and Fanny Robin, a character wears a false beard to hide from a creditor while at a sheep fair at Greenhill in South Wessex. That character, Sergeant Troy, is later shot by Mr Boldwood. For 10 points, Gabriel Oak and Bathsheba Everdene appear in which novel by Thomas Hardy?\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Far from the Madding Crowd\
\

\i0\b0 \ulnone 7. One ruler of this name roamed the streets of Berlin ripping extravagant clothing off women. Another ruler with this name established the customs union that became the Zollverein, while a third said an offer to become Emperor of Germany \'93smelled of the gutter\'94 and rebuilt Hohenzollern castle. A duke with this name was known as \'93the great elector.\'94 Another ruler with this name recruited soldiers at least six-foot-two to join the \'93Potsdam Giants.\'94 For 10 points, what name is shared by four Prussian kings, including the father of Frederick the Great?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Frederick-William
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Friedrich-Wilhelm
\b0 \ulnone ; do not accept or prompt on \'93Frederick\'94 or \'93Wilhelm\'94]\
\
8. This quantity is multiplied by Young\'92s modulus to define stiffness in the Euler\'96Bernoulli beam equation. For a solid sphere, this quantity is two fifths of the radius squared times mass, and this quantity can be found using Steiner\'92s parallel axis theorem. Multiplying this quantity by angular velocity gives angular momentum, and an analogue of Newton\'92s second law sets torque as this quantity times angular acceleration. For 10 points, name this rotational analogue of mass. \'a0\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul moment of inertia
\b0 \ulnone \
\
9. Martin\uc0\u367 \'92s work of this type and number quotes phrases from the \'93St. Wenceslas Chorale\'94 and his opera 
\i Julietta
\i0 . Mozart used a theme from 
\i Apollo et Hyacinthus
\i0  for the \'93Andante\'94 of his work of this type and number which is his first in four movements. One work of this type and number in C major was inspired by Rossini\'92s success in Vienna and in another work of this type and number the second movement is a \'93Humoreske\'94 played without strings. As well as Schubert\'92s 
\i Little C Major
\i0  and Nielsen\'92s 
\i Simple
\i0 , other symphonies of this number include one where a bassoon solo is marked 
\i pppppp
\i0  and another with a movement labelled \'93Scene by the Brook\'94. For 10 points, what number links Tchaikovsky\'92s 
\i Path\'e9tique
\i0  and Beethoven\'92s 
\i Pastoral
\i0  symphonies?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul six
\b0 \ulnone th
\b \ul  symphony
\b0 \ulnone  [accept word forms and accept 
\b \ul six
\b0 \ulnone th after \'93symphonies\'94; accept 
\i Fantaisies symphoniques
\i0  before \'93Mozart\'94 from people who ignore instructions]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 10. Smaller islands in this archipelago include the Minalto islands and Men-a-vaur. Smugglers used two caves known as Piper\'92s Hole in this archipelago and its largest sandbank is called Crow Bar. This archipelago is four miles east of the world\'92s smallest island with a building on it: Bishop\'92s Rock. Tourist sites in this archipelago include Rushy Bay on Bryher and the Abbey Gardens established by Augustus Smith on Tresco. Half of its population lives in Hugh Town. For 10 points, name this archipelago off the south coast of Cornwall.\
ANSWER: Isles of 
\b \ul Scilly
\b0 \ulnone  [Enesek 
\b \ul Syllan
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
11. In one work by this author, the flight of a gadfly to the Nile is described by the chorus in a prayer to Zeus asking for protection from the lust of young men. In another work by this author two characters disguise themselves as travellers from Phocis. In addition to the 
\i The Suppliant Women
\i0  and 
\i The Libation Bearers
\i0 , this author wrote a play a purple carpet is laid out for the title character, who is murdered by Aegisthus and Clytemnestra as revenge for the sacrifice of Iphigenia. For 10 points, name this Greek playwright, whose 
\i Agamemnon
\i0  was the first play in his trilogy 
\i Oresteia
\i0 .\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Aeschylus
\b0 \ulnone \
\
12. Brouwer and Heyting favoured those which avoid the principle of excluded middle, and which thus correspond to programs via the Curry\'96Howard isomorphism as they are \'93constructive\'94. Paul Erd\uc0\u337 s spoke of a book containing the best examples of these, a famous one of which assumes the existence of only finitely many primes in a technique known as 
\i reductio ad absurdam
\i0 . They may be found by methods including contradiction and induction. For 10 points, name these deductive arguments used to demonstrate the truth of mathematical statements, which are often followed by an empty square or the letters \'93Q.E.D.\'94\
ANSWER: mathematical 
\b \ul proof
\b0 \ulnone s\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 13. Rulers of this empire drank from the skull of the loser of the Battle of Nsamankow. Garnet Wolseley defeated it at Amoaful and Ordashu, and this empire\'92s Queen Yaa declared war on the British while Prempeh I was exiled in the Seychelles. Its attacks on the coastal Fanti and Ga peoples led to its first war against the British. It was formed after the Battle of Feyiase, in which the Akan people were led by Okomfo Onekye and Osei Tutu I. Its leaders ruled from Kumasi and sat on the Golden Stool. For 10 points, name this empire in what is now Ghana.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ashanti
\b0 \ulnone  Empire [or 
\b \ul Asante
\b0 \ulnone man]\
\
14. During this conflict, Mulugueta Bulli led one of the three Ethiopian Kagnew battalions that won all 238 of their engagements. A series of battles took place at \'93Old Baldy\'94 during this conflict, which also saw Arthur Trudeau lead UNC forces at the Battle of Pork Chop Hill. In it, Matthew Ridgeway was selected by Harry Truman to replace Douglas MacArthur, who had masterminded the amphibious assault at Incheon. For 10 points, name this conflict that began in 1950 when Northern communist forces crossed the 38\super th\nosupersub  parallel on an Asian peninsula.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Korea
\b0 \ulnone n War
\b  [
\b0 accept 
\b \ul Hanguk Jeonjaeng
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Joseon Jeonjaeng
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
15. This action is not necessary when performing Hajj al-Ifrad, but during Hajj al-Tamattu this action is performed after the stoning of the devil. This action is performed in the Vedic kingship ceremony, 
\i ashvamedha
\i0 , before the queen simulates copulation with a horse while others recite obscenities. \'a0Performed on the eve of Yom Kippur, 
\i kapparot
\i0  traditionally involved this action. A Greek variety of this practice was a hecatomb. For 10 points, name that practice that sees the offering of a ritual slaughter.\
ANSWER: animal 
\b \ul sacrifice
\b0 \ulnone  [accept word forms; accept answers that mention specific animals but NOT humans; prompt on \'93slaughter\'94 and \'93offering\'94 before \'93offering\'94 is read]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6\sl200
\cf0 16. Reduced thioredoxin can activate a number of enzymes in this process by reducing their regulatory disulphide bridges. This process can restart when malate stored in vacuoles is decarboxylated to pyruvate in crassulacean acid metabolism, and in C4 organisms it occurs in bundle sheath cells. In this process, two molecules of 3-phosphoglycerate are formed from the reaction of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate with carbon dioxide, catalysed by Rubisco. For 10 points name these series of reactions in which carbon is fixed to form sugars in chloroplasts.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Calvin
\b0 \ulnone -Benson-Bassham 
\b \ul cycle
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on photosynthesis and dark reactions] \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 17. In one novel by this author, the story of Fray Baltazar is recalled by a priest whose only possession is an ancient, wooden parrot. A Jean-Georges Vibert painting inspired this author\'92s description of Bishop Ferrand assigning a priest a new diocese. In another novel, Pavel recalls throwing a couple out of their wedding carriage to a pack of wolves. That novel\'92s narrator fantasises about kissing Lena Lingard in a Nebraskan cornfield, and the married Antonia Shimerda is visited by her childhood friend Jim Burden. For 10 points, name this author of 
\i Death Comes for the Archbishop
\i0  and 
\i My \'c1ntonia
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Willa (Sibert) 
\b \ul Cather
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 18. In a Nena creation myth, one of these events occurs after the material that makes the world is defecated by ants. In Mapuche myth, the serpent Kai-Kai causes one of these events, and one caused by the Aztec goddess Chalchiutlecue destroyed the fourth sun. Enlil decided to kill all humans in one of these events, but Utnapishtim is saved when Enki instructs him to build 
\i The Preserver of Life
\i0 . Manu Vaivaswata is warned of one of these events by the first avatar of Vishnu, the fish Matsya. The only survivors of one of these events are Pyrrha and Deucalion. For 10 points, name these disasters, one of which in Abrahamic traditions is only survived by the family of Noah.\
ANSWER: great 
\b \ul flood
\b0 \ulnone s [accept clear knowledge equivalents such as 
\b \ul deluge
\b0 \ulnone s, etc.]\
\
19. Ian Ritchie added three glass circulation towers to the outside of one of these buildings in Madrid and Oscar Niemeyer designed a white-concrete one often described as a \'93flying saucer\'94 at Niter\'f3i. One of these buildings designed by Frank Gehry loosely resembles a ship and is clad in titanium and glass. The east wing of one of these buildings is an angular trapezium and was designed by I. M. Pei, who also added a glass pyramid to another of these buildings. For 10 points, what sort of building is the Louvre?\
ANSWER: art 
\b \ul galleries
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul art museum
\b0 \ulnone s [accept equivalents; prompt on \'93museums\'94]\
\
20. At this event, Colonel Axtell shouted \'93down with whores!\'94 and threatened to shoot two masked ladies that shouted in protest. As well as John Dorislaus, other jurists at this event included one who refused to pick up a silver cane tip, and the bulletproof beaver-wearing president, John Bradshaw. Parliament authorized it after MPs supporting the Treaty of Newport were purged by Thomas Pride and the New Model Army. Taking place in Westminster Hall, this was, for 10 points, what January 1649 trial of a certain defeated monarch?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul trial of Charles I
\b0 \ulnone  [accept any equivalent answer as long as it mentions 
\b \ul Charles I
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
\ul Bonuses\ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200
\cf0 1. The title character of this play dies after falling into a boiling cauldron. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this play in which Barabas sends a servant to murder al of the nuns in the convent that is home to his daughter, Abigail.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Jew of Malta\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] Name this Turkish, Christian hating servant of Barabas. He is blackmailed into betrayed his master by a prostitute.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ithamore
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Ithamore and Barabas are creations of this playwright of 
\i The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus.
\b \ul \

\i0\b0 \ulnone ANSWER: Christopher 
\b \ul Marlowe
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 2. This function is written in the form y equals k to the alpha times one to the beta, where alpha plus beta equals one. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this doubly-eponymous production function used in microeconomics that relates output to capital and labour and includes parameters for output elasticity.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cobb\'96Douglas
\b0 \ulnone  function\
[10] These graphs are neat and convex for the Cobb\'96Douglas function. They represent goods bundles for which the consumer has no preference.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul indifference
\b0 \ulnone  curves\
[10] This quantity is kept constant in indifference curves. It is assumed that individuals try to maximise this quantity.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul utility\

\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 3. This man coined the aphorism \'93the road to hell is paved with good intentions.\'94 For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this Cistercian abbot dubbed 
\i Doctor Mellifluus
\i0  by Pius XII. This author of 
\i On Loving God
\i0  and 
\i On Consideration
\i0  was an advisor for five popes and had such influence that Eugene III supposedly remarked \'93they say that it is you are who are Pope and not I\'94.\
ANSWER: Saint 
\b \ul Bernard
\b0 \ulnone  of 
\b \ul Clairvaux
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] At the request of Eugene III, Bernard of Clairvaux preached throughout France raising support for the second crusade after Turks led by Zengi captured this city in 1144. The centre of a namesake landlocked crusader state northeast of Aleppo, this city had been a centre of Christianity since Thaddeus converted King Abgar V here in the second century.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Edessa
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Bernard persuaded Innocent II to convene the 1140 council of Sens to condemn the doctrine of this theologian. Fulbert\'92s men castrated this author of 
\i Sic et Non
\i0  because of his relationship with Helo\'efse.\
ANSWER: Peter 
\b \ul Abelard\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6\sl200

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 4. Why use the northern blot when you can use a process involving this enzyme? For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this enzyme that is used create a complementary DNA template in RT-PCR.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Reverse transcriptase
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] These viruses use reverse transcriptase; examples include murine leukaemia virus and hepatitis-B.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Retrovirus
\b0 \ulnone es\
[10] This reverse transcriptase adds the sequence TTAGGG to the 3\'92 (three prime) end of the namesake region of the chromosome.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Telomerase\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 5. The mechanism in which these entities are produced approximately simulates a Poisson process with an expected waiting time of ten minutes. For 10 points each:\
[10] This digital cryptocurrency has received much media attention in recent months. It has experienced an increase in value of over 20,000% since its introduction in 2009, at one point surpassing the value of an ounce of gold in November 2013.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Bitcoin
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul BTC
\b0 \ulnone ; or 
\b \ul XBT
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Double spending of bitcoins is avoided by recording all transactions in this public log, which is maintained by a distributed network of computers competing to solve cryptographic problems.\
ANSWER: the 
\b \ul blockchain
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Bitcoins are divided into hundred-millionths named after this mysterious pseudonymous author of the paper which first proposed the peer-to-peer cash system on which Bitcoin is based.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Satoshi
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul Nakamoto
\b0 \ulnone  [accept either name]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200
\cf0 \
6. Identify some Chinese novels, for 10 points each.\
[10] This novel follows a Buddhist monk, Tripitaka who tries to bring Buddhism to China. He is joined by Sandy, Pigsy and the Monkey King.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Journey to the West
\i0\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\f1\i\b \ul X\uc0\u299  Y\'f3u J
\f0 \'ec
\i0\b0 \ulnone ; or 
\i\b \ul Hsi-yu chi
\i0\b0 \ulnone ; prompt on \'93
\i Monkey
\i0 \'94, which is an abridged translation]\
[10] This one-hundred chapter novel by Shi Nai\'92an is based on the exploits of the outlaw Song Jiang and his companions during the Song dynasty. It sees the one-hundred-and-eight stars of destiny fight the forces of Gao Qiu.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Water Margin
\i0\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\i\b \ul Shu\uc0\u464  H\u468 
\b0 \ulnone  Zhu\'e0n
\i0 ; or 
\i\b \ul Outlaws of the Marsh
\i0\b0 \ulnone  and equivalent translations; or 
\i\b \ul All Men Are Brothers
\i0\b0 \ulnone ; or 
\i\b \ul The Marshes of Mount Liang
\i0\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Tris Cole wants you to know that this novel uses several themes from the 
\i Water Margin
\i0  although it is better known for its depiction of sexual fetishes. The sex could get a bit dangerous as the concubine Li Ping\'92er bleeds to death and the protagonist Ximen Qing dies after an overdose of aphrodisiacs.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Plum in the Golden Vase
\i0\b0 \ulnone  [accept equivalent translations; or 
\i\b \ul Jin Ping Mei
\i0\b0 \ulnone ; or 
\i The 
\b \ul Golden Lotus
\i0\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 7. This author linked verification theory to reductionism in one work. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this philosopher who also rejected the analytic-synthetic distinction in
\i  Two Dogmas of Empiricism
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Willard Van Orman 
\b \ul Quine
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In 
\i Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature
\i0 , Richard Rorty argues Quine's doctrines of indeterminacy of translation and ontological relativity demand the end of this discipline. This branch of philosophy concerned with the nature of knowledge was considered to be a science by Quine, as it deals with sense data.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul epistemology
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Rorty argued that Quine\'92s attack on the structure-content distinction in 
\i Two Dogmas of Empiricism
\i0  \'93invokes the same argument\'94 as this philosopher\'92s attack on the idea of \'93givenness\'94 in his 
\i Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Wilfred 
\b \ul Sellars
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 \
8. Conspirators involved with this plot included Arthur Thistlewood, James Ings and the Jamaican William Davidson. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this conspiracy devised by a group called the Spencean Philanthropists which planned to raid a dinner, decapitate the cabinet and display the severed head of Castlereagh on Westminster Bridge in the hope it would trigger a revolution. It was uncovered by the Bow Street runners.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cato Street
\b0 \ulnone  conspiracy\
[10] The Cato Street conspiracy sought to assassinate this long-serving prime minister, whose tenure saw the Peterloo massacre and the introduction of the Corn Laws.\
ANSWER: Robert 
\b \ul Jenkinson
\b0 \ulnone , 2\super nd\nosupersub  Earl of 
\b \ul Liverpool
\b0 \ulnone  [accept either underlined part]\
[10] The conspirators had been angered by legislation known as the Six Acts that was issued after the Peterloo massacre and designed to prevent further disturbance. The Six Acts were pushed through by this former prime minister who was serving as the home secretary in Liverpool\'92s cabinet.\
ANSWER: Henry 
\b \ul Addington
\b0 \ulnone , 1\super st\nosupersub  Viscount 
\b \ul Sidmouth
\b0 \ulnone  [accept either underlined part]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 9. Answer some questions about electrochemistry, for 10 points each:\
[10] This equation can be used to calculate equilibrium reduction potential of electrochemical half cells. It is named for the developer of the Third Law of Thermodynamics.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nernst
\b0 \ulnone  equation\
[10] This diatomic gas\'92 equilibrium with protons has its reduction potential defined as zero.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Hydrogen
\b0 \ulnone  (or 
\b \ul H\sub 2
\b0 \nosupersub \ulnone )\
[10] This equation relates the current through an electrode to overpotential and anodic and cathodic currents in the electrode. At high overpotential it simplifies to the Tafel equation. \'a0\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Butler\'96Volmer
\b0 \ulnone  equation\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 10. This man\'92s grandfather is said to have only laughed once in his lifetime, upon seeing a donkey eating thistles. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this Roman politician, one of the richest men in history, who formed the first triumvirate with Pompey and Julius Caesar.\
ANSWER: Marcus Licinius 
\b \ul Crassus
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Suetonius alleged Crassus was complicit in a conspiracy led by this senator to overthrow the republic. However Crassus was among those who brought letters warning of an impending massacre to Cicero who condemned this former governor of Africa in the senate.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Catiline
\b0 \ulnone  [or Lucius Sergius 
\b \ul Catilina
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] 
\i The Conspiracy of Catiline
\i0  was recorded by this historian and politician who served as a territorial governor in Numidia and wrote a history of the Jugurthine War. An invective against this man claimed that he belonged to a faction of \'93wantons, catamites, traitors, committers of sacrilege, and debtors\'94.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Sallust
\b0 \ulnone  [Gaius 
\b \ul Sallust
\b0 \ulnone us Crispus]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-618\sl200
\cf0 11. On the advice of her sister, Bella Salomon gave the score of this piece of music to her fourteen-year-old grandson, Felix Mendelssohn, and changed the course of classical music. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this first major choral work by Bach. The text was compiled by Picander and many of the reflective arias are sung by an imaginary \'91Daughter of Jerusalem\'92. Mendelssohn\'92s 1829 performance of this work is credited with reviving interest in Bach.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Saint Matthew
\b0 \ulnone \'92s
\i0  
\i\b \ul Passion
\i0\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\i\b \ul Matth\'e4us-Passion
\i0\b0 \ulnone ; or 
\b \ul BWV 244
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Mendelssohn doubted the authenticity of this other Bach choral work, suggesting it was probably copied from Telemann or another composer. Krzysztof Penderecki wrote an atonal choral work with the same title which used over one-hundred variations on the BACH motif.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul St Luke Passion
\i0\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\i\b \ul Lukas-Passion
\i0\b0 \ulnone ; or 
\i\b \ul Passio et mors Domini nostri Jesu Christi secundum Lucam
\i0\b0 \ulnone ; or 
\i The
\i0  
\i\b \ul Passion and Death of Our Lord Jesus Christ According to St Luke
\i0\b0 \ulnone ]\
 [10] Mendelssohn also reinvigorated interest in this composer with his arrangement of the oratorio 
\i Israel in Egypt
\i0 . Charles Jennens who compiled the text for 
\i Israel in Egypt
\i0  also collaborated with this composer on 
\i Messiah
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Georg Friedrich 
\b \ul H\'e4ndel
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200
\cf0 \
12. Identify some characters from the works of Dostoyevsky, for 10 points each.\
[10] This character from 
\i Crime and Punishment
\i0  murders his landlord Alyona Ivanovna with an axe and later kills her sister Lizaveta. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Rodion
\b0 \ulnone  (Romanovich) 
\b \ul Raskolnikov
\b0 \ulnone  [accept either underlined part]\
[10] The eldest of the 
\i Brothers Karamazov
\i0  must control his violent temper when he and his father compete for the same woman, Grushenka.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Dmitri
\b0  
\b Fyodorovich Karamazov\ulnone \

\b0 [10] This character is murdered by her lover Rogozhin and is Agalya Epanchin\'92s rival for Prince Myshkin\'92s affections in 
\i The Idiot
\i0 .\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nastasya
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul Filippovna
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul Barashkov
\b0 \ulnone a [accept any underlined part]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 13. In one painting in this series, an old man draws in the dirt, and another depicts a woman throwing herself into a harbour to avoid the sexual advances from a soldier. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this series of five paintings inspired by 
\i Childe Harolde\'92s Pilgrimage
\i0 . Paintings in this series include
\i  The Savage State
\i0  and 
\i Desolation
\i0  and each picture depicts the same rocky outcrop with a precariously balanced boulder.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Course of Empire
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] 
\i The Course of Empire
\i0  was painted by this founder of the Hudson River school, whose other paintings include 
\i The Voyage of Life
\i0  series, 
\i The Titan\'92s Goblet
\i0  and 
\i The Oxbow
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Thomas 
\b \ul Cole
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Thomas Cole was depicted with William Cullen Bryant on a promontory in the Catskill Mountains in this painting by Asher Durand.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Kindred Spirits
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
14. For 10 points each, answer the following about the rivers of South America.\
[10] The Amazon is usually considered to begin at the confluence of Ucayali and Mara\'f1\'f3n; however, in Brazil, it is only considered to begin when the resulting river is joined by the Rio Negro at this city, the capital of Amazonas state.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Manaus
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This river rises in Minas Gerais and is joined by the Igua\'e7u, Paraguay and Salado before joining with the Uruguay to form the R\'edo de la Plata. It is the second longest river in South America, after the Amazon.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Paran\'e1
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] After the Amazon, Paran\'e1, and the Amazon\'92s tributary, the Madeira, this river is the fourth longest in South America. It is the longest river entirely within Brazil. Also rising in Minas Gerais, this river is dammed at Paulo Afonso and reaches the sea in Alagoas.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul S\'e3o Francisco
\b0 \ulnone \
\
15. Answer some questions about solid state physics, for 10 points each.\
[10] These ordered solids comprise a basis repeated on lattice points, and the Kapustinskii equation can be used to calculate their energy.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul crystals
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] All crystals can be classified as one of these lattices, of which there are fourteen distinct ones. They are named for a French physicist. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Bravais
\b0 \ulnone  lattices\
[10] Families of planes in Bravais lattices are characterised by these three numbers, usually represented as h, k and l.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Miller
\b0 \ulnone  Indices\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sl200
\cf0 \
16. This poem\'92s narrator declares \'93Would I had whelped a knot of vipers \'97 at the worst/ 'Twere better than this runt that whines and snivels there!\'94 For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this poem that describes the rejection the author felt after his mother\'92s remarriage. It describes The Poet whose \'93lucid essence flames with lightnings\'94.\
ANSWER: \'91
\b \ul Benediction
\b0 \ulnone \'92 [\'91
\b \ul B\'e9n\'e9diction
\b0 \ulnone \'92]\
[10] In the section \'91Spleen and Ideal\'92, \'91Benediction\'92 precedes this poem. Also describing the poet, it compares him to the title \'93prince of cloud and sky\'94 whose \'93giant wings prevent him from walking\'94.\
ANSWER: \'91
\b \ul The Albatross
\b0 \ulnone \'92 [\'91L\'92
\b \ul albatros
\b0 \ulnone \'92]\
[10] \'91Benediction\'92 and \'91The Albatross\'92 are collected in 
\i Les Fleurs du Mal
\i0 , a work by this French symbolist poet.\
ANSWER: Charles (Pierre) 
\b \ul Baudelaire
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 \uc0\u8232 17. When these objects are smaller than one hundred square kilometres they are called stocks. For 10 points each:\
[10] This term describes a large intrusive mass of igneous rock formed when several plutons converge. They are formed when buoyant magma rises through country rock and they extend over hundreds of square kilometres. A form of erosion known as exfoliation may shape the exposed surface into domes.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul batholith
\b0 \ulnone  [accept but don\'92t otherwise mention 
\b \ul granite boss
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Batholiths are often comprised of this igneous rock made of quartz, orthoclase feldspar and mica. It is the most common form of rock in the continental crust.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul granite
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This rock is similar to granite except that it contains more plagioclase than orthoclase feldspar. Its other constituent minerals are hornblende, augite and biotite mica.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul granodiorite
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6
\cf0 \
18. Possible answers to a question posed by this group include \'93Gering-ding-ding-ding-dingeringeding\'94, \'93Hatee-hatee-hatee-ho\'94, \'93Joff-tchoff-tchoffo-tchoffo-tchoff\'94 and \'93Jacha-chacha-chacha-chow\'94. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this Norwegian duo who repeatedly ask \'93what does the fox say?\'94 in their viral hit \'93The Fox\'94.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ylvis
\b0 \ulnone  [accept Vegard and B\'e5rd 
\b \ul Ylvis\'e5ker
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] In Wes Anderson\'92s film 
\i The Fantastic Mr. Fox
\i0 , whatever the title fox says, he says with the voice of this actor. This actor\'92s only other voice role have been in 
\i South Park
\i0  and he won an Academy Award for his performance in 
\i Syriana
\i0 .\
ANSWER: George (Timothy) 
\b \ul Clooney
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In Lars Tier\'92s charming film 
\i Antichrist
\i0 , Willem Dafoe\'92s character lifts up a fern to find a fox who takes a break from eating his own innards to say these two words.\
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul chaos reigns
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
\
19. It would be prudent not to claim that these\'a0sportsmen have anything discernible in common. For 10 points each:\
[10] This running back became this first professional player to rush 2000 yards in a season while playing for the Buffalo Bills. He later moved to the San Francisco 49ers.\
ANSWER: O. J. 
\b \ul Simpson
\b0 \ulnone  [or Orenthal James 
\b \ul Simpson
\b0 \ulnone ; accept 
\b \ul O. J.
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] This T44 double amputee runner has six Paralympic gold medals between 100 metres and 400 metres. In 2011 he became the first disability athlete to win a global medal for able-bodied athletes with a silver in the 400 metre relay at the world championships in Daegu.\
ANSWER: Oscar (Leonard Carl) 
\b \ul Pistorius
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Rated by BoxRec as the second greatest middleweight boxer ever behind Dick Tiger, this Argentinean made more title defences and held the undisputed title longer than any other boxer in his weight division. \'a0\
ANSWER: Carlos 
\b \ul Monz\'f3n\
\

\b0 \ulnone 20. For 10 points each, answer the following about the history of tobacco in Virginia:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380
\cf0 [10] This king described smoking as \'93a custom loathsome to the eye, hateful to the nose\'94 and \'93harmful to the brain\'94 in his treatise 
\i A Counterblaste to Tobacco
\i0 . Nevertheless, in 1606 he chartered the unsuccessful Virginia Company to bring tobacco to London.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul James I
\b0 \ulnone  of England [or 
\b \ul James VI
\b0 \ulnone  of Scotland]\
[10] Tobacco only became a commercially viable crop and Virginia\'92s main export after this colonist introduced a new strain from Trinidad to Jamestown. He later married the Powhatan princess Pocahontas.\
ANSWER: John 
\b \ul Rolfe
\b0 \ulnone  [definitely do not accept \'93John Smith\'94]\
[10] As tobacco was serving as collateral in the loan Benjamin Franklin negotiated with France, British troops burned Virginian tobacco warehouses after victory at this 1781 battle. This battle of the Yorktown campaign saw von Steuben\'92s forces retreat from troops led by Benedict Arnold in one of his first battles after his defection.\
ANSWER: Battle of 
\b \ul Blandford
\b0 \ulnone  [accept Battle of 
\b \ul Petersburg
\b0 \ulnone , but not the \'93Siege of Petersburg,\'94 which refers to a Civil War battle]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6\sl200
\cf0 \
}