{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;}
{\info
{\title Oxford Open 2014- Do You Want to Get with Women}
{\author Ewan MacAulay}
{\*\company Balliol College}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13140\viewh14520\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri62\sl200\qj

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri62\sl200\qj

\b0 \cf0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, P.J. Berry, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Round 4\
QLL + TEAiM + Gray Monks
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Tossups\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 1. This composer\'92s first significant acclaim came after another composer revised his opera based on Gabriela Preissov\'e1\'92s 
\i Her Stepdaughter
\i0 .  Works by this composer written in his last decade include a string quartet based on a short story by Tolstoy, which itself refers to a piece by Beethoven, as well as an opera based on a newspaper cartoon-strip and a Mass written in Old Church Slavonic.  One opera by this composer features the title character and Laca left to earn their own living; that work is Jenufa and is known as "the Moravian national opera". For 10 points, this is which Czech composer of 
\i Taras Bulba
\i0 , 
\i Sinfonietta
\i0  and 
\i The
\i0  
\i Cunning Little Vixen
\i0 ? \
ANSWER:  Leo\'9a 
\b \ul Jan\'e1\uc0\u269 ek
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf0 2.  Ruy Gonz\'e1les de Clavijo was the Castilian ambassador to the court of this leader, who designated Pir Muhammad as his successor before he died en route to China. He won the Battle of Kondurcha against Tokhtamysh, and he constructed the Gur-e-Amir in his capital of Samarqand. He built pyramids of skulls outside Delhi and Damascus, and he captured Bayezid, the Ottoman sultan. Christopher Marlowe wrote a play about, for 10 points, what Turkic Muslim conqueror who got his nickname because he walked with a limp.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Timur
\b0 \ulnone  the Lame [or 
\b \ul Tamerlane
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Tamburlaine
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Timur
\b0 \ulnone -i Lang]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
3. One form of this process, found in bees, is arrhenotoky, while the opposite form, found in aphids, is thelytoky.  While whiptail lizards and some geckos are among the few vertebrates where this process is obligate, it is known as facultative when it occurs exceptionally in a species, as in Komodo dragons and hammerhead sharks.  Similar processes are pseudogamy and gynogenesis, where no genetic contribution is made to the egg by male gametes.  For 10 points, this is which term for asexual reproduction derived from the Greek for virgin and birth? \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Parthenogenesis
\b0 \ulnone  [accept virgin birth before mention]\
\
\pard\tx0\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 4. A parody by Hugh Kingsmill of a poem in collection includes the lines \'93But bacon\'92s not the only thing / That\'92s cured by hanging on a string.\'94 The title object of another poem in this collection is \'93hung with bloom along the bough.\'94 This collection containing \'93Loveliest of Trees\'94 is the source of the line \'93Mithradates, he died old.\'94  The source of that Kingsmill parody is a poem about a person who \'93man and boy stood cheering by.\'94 \'93Terence, this is stupid stuff\'94 appears alongside \'93To An Athlete Dying Young\'94 in, for 10 points, what A. E. Housman collection?\
\pard\tx0\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\i A 
\b \ul Shropshire Lad\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i0\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
5. This painting was described in a letter by Sir Thomas Lawrence to David Wilkie as \'91the true philosophy of the art\'92.  A girl in red rests her foot on a dog in the lower right of this painting, and a man can be seen resting his left hand on a doorframe leading to some stairs in the background. The parents of the main figured depicted can be seen in a mirror, and the artist himself is seen looking out from behind the canvas. For 10 points, name painting of the infanta and some little people by Velazquez.\
ANSWER: 
\i Las
\i0  
\i\b \ul Meninas
\i0\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\i The 
\b \ul Maids of Honour
\i0\b0 \ulnone )\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf0 6. The soap fragrance Oil of Guaiac comes from a species of 
\i Bulnesia
\i0  unique to this region, and Unit\'e1n, a tannin producer, uses the quebracho trees found only here. Trinidad, Resistencia, and Tucum\'e1n are among the few significant cities in this homeland of the Exnet and Ayoreo, whose name means \'93hunting land\'94 in Quechua. Rumors of oil led to a war in the 1930s in this region that lies south of the Pantanal and north of the Pampas. For 10 points, name this scrubby region that covers over half of both Bolivia and Paraguay.\
ANSWER: Gran 
\b \ul Chaco
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf0 7. During his 2009 trial, this man claimed that American CIA agents had helped him escape from a maximum security prison in Boston in 1985. He later underwent training under Muammar Gaddafi in Libya before moving to C\'f4te d\'92Ivoire. He first came to public attention in his homeland when he supported a 1980 coup led by Samuel Doe that resulted in the murder of President Tolbert. He became president of his country in 1997 before resigning six years later. For 10 points, name this former president of Liberia who was sentenced for war crimes.   \
ANSWER: Charles 
\b \ul Taylor\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
8. The Gibbs-Marangoni effect is caused by a gradient in this phenomenon, while another effect of this is explained by Plateau-Rayleigh instability. This phenomenon can be measured by the Wilhelmy plate, Du No\uc0\u363 y ring, and pendant drop methods. This quantity is measured in units of energy per unit area, and its strength is reduced by surfactants. This phenomenon, which is represented as \u947  in the Young-Laplace equation, is the cause of puddling and capillary action. For 10 points, name this contractive tendency that allows liquids to resist an external force, and is the reason why some insects can walk on water. \
ANSWER:
\b \ul  surface tension
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
\pard\tx0\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 9. This writer\'92s first publication was a translation of the poetry of Jorge Manrique, followed by a travelogue called 
\i Outre-Mer
\i0  about his stay in Europe.  A love triangle involving John Alden and Priscilla Mullins forms the plot of one of his long narrative poem. A poem by this man concludes \'93Still achieving, still pursuing / learn to labour and to wait.\'94 In addition to writing \'93The Courtship of Miles Standish\'94 and \'93Psalm of Life,\'94 this man coined the phrase \'93one if by land, two if by sea\'94 in \'93Paul Revere\'92s Ride.\'94 For ten points identify this poet of \'93Song of Hiawatha
\i \'94
\i0 ?\
\pard\tx0\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth 
\b \ul Longfellow\ulnone  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
10. This actor co-starred with Victor Spinetti in 
\i Two in Clover
\i0  on TV,
\i  
\i0 played Harry Hawkins in 
\i The Titfield Thunderbolt
\i0  and Lackery Wood in 
\i The Lavender Hill Mob, 
\i0 and his final stage performance was in 
\i The Mating Season
\i0  in Sunderland.
\i  
\i0 This actor replaced Ted Ray in a film series, initially playing a police sergeant, and was a mainstay of a seminal radio (later TV) series, playing a character with the middle name Balmoral. For 10 points, name this actor who counted Mark Anthony, Henry VIII and Sir Sidney Rough-Diamond among his 19 Carry On roles and starred in 
\i Bless This House
\i0 ?\
ANSWER: Sidney 
\b \ul James
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
11. With Leonard Savage, this man argued that the curvature of an individual\'92s utility function varies with wealth; and his permanent income hypothesis posits that windfall gains and tax reductions have limited effect on consumption patterns. This economist\'92s k-percent rule states that central banks should always increase the stock of money by a fixed percentage regardless of business cycles.  Arguing that consumption and output are primarily determined not by investment or fiscal policy but money supply, for 10 points, this is which Chicago economist who revived monetarist theory in the 1960s.   \
ANSWER: Milton 
\b \ul Friedman
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx0\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 12. This author declared \'93the metaphysical man is dead\'94 in the conclusion to his essay \'93The Experimental Novel\'94. Cabuche is wrongly imprisoned for a murder committed by Roubaud on a train in a novel by this man. Another novel by this man, which gets its name from a month in the French Republican Calendar, is about Etienne Lantier\'92s experiences of a coalminer\'92s strike. Forming part of this man\'92s 
\i Les Rougon-Macquart
\i0  series alongside 
\i La B\'eate Humaine
\i0 , that novel is 
\i Germinal
\i0 . For 10 points identify this French writer who helped exonerate Alfred Dreyfus with his article 
\i J\'92accuse
\i0 ? \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: \'c9mile 
\b \ul Zola
\b0 \ulnone \
\
13. An isotope of this element is being used in the MAJORANA project, an international effort searching for neutrinoless double-beta decay. This element was first found by Clemens Winkler [VINK-ler], combined with silver and sulfur in the mineral argyrodite. This element\'92s arsenide was used in the most efficient solar cell produced to date. Before being superseded by silicon, this metalloid was used in early transistors. For 10 points, name this element originally known as eka-silicon but with atomic number 32 and symbol Ge.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Germanium
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Ge
\b0 \ulnone  until mentioned)\
 \
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 14. Field-Marshal Gyulai retreated from this battle with 10,000 casualties, having been outflanked when the enemy crossed the river Ticino. Felice Orsini\'92s failure to assassinate the Emperor sowed the seeds of the war of which this first major clash took place in Lombardy and saw Piedmont-Sardinian forces assist Napoleon III to defeat the Austrians. For 10 points, name this 1859 battle of the Second Italian War of Independence, which gave its name to a colour whose dye was discovered the same year.\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: Battle of 
\b \ul Magenta
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
15. In one version of her story, this goddess ate the entirety of a gift from the Queen Mother of the West, a pill which gave immortality if half of it was eaten. One of this goddess\'92 animal companions always stands on its hind legs pounding at a mortar, and another figure associated with her myth is perpetually trying to cut down a cassia tree. After fleeing her husband Houyi, this goddess now lives with the elixir-brewing jade rabbit Yutu. For 10 points, name this Chinese goddess of the moon, the namesake of China\'92s lunar exploration program.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Chang\'92e
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Chang-O
\b0 \ulnone )\
\
16. One character in this novel is based on Monica Jones, the occasional muse of Philip Larkin. Another character in this novel pretends to be the Evening Post reporter Alfred Beesley to avoid discussing an earlier incident where he set fire to his bedsheets while drunkenly smoking. The pretentious amateur painter Bertrand Welch cheats on Christine Callaghan in this novel, while Margaret Peel claims to have attempted suicide. For 10 points, name this novel which culminates in the title young lecturer\'92s disastrous drunken lecture on \'91Merrie England\'92, written by Kingsley Amis. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Lucky Jim
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 17. This title is applied as an epithet to the author of the books 
\i On Ceremonies
\i0  and 
\i On the Imperial Administration
\i0 . The use of the title is first attested in 846, but Commodus was the first Roman emperor who would have qualified for it. Caius Cominius Leugas was said by Pliny to have discovered the eponymous form of marble which later decorated the chamber in the Sacred Palace where Constantine VII first drew breath. For 10 points, give this colourful title denoting legitimate offspring of an already-reigning Byzantine emperor.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul born into the purple
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Porphyrogennetos/e
\b0 \ulnone  or\ul  
\b Porphyrogenitus/a
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
18. In this novel, an influential figure in the protagonist's circle of friends publishes an unsuccessful volume of poetry called 
\i The Yellow 
\i0 Book. A peer of the protagonist in Paris refuses to eat meals with him because she is secretly destitute. The main character has an affair with a much older woman whom he persists in calling Miss Wilkinson. At the end of this novel, the protagonist becomes a doctor and marries the wholesome Sally. This novel also features a very frustrating love affair with a one-time waitress called Mildred.  For 10 points\'97name this Somerset Maugham bildungsroman about Peter Carey.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Of Human Bondage
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
19. Convergent evolution has produced three families of these plants, including the New World 
\i Sarraceniaceae
\i0 . In the genus 
\i Nepenthes
\i0 , tendrils extend from the midrib to hold the \'91monkey cup\'92, while 
\i Heliamphora 
\i0 have a simple rolled leaf that excretes nectar
\i . 
\i0 The moccasin plant of Australia contains mutualistic insect larvae that feed on trapped insects and whose excreta the plant absorbs, while other species use bacteria or enzymes to dissolve their prey. Insects are drowned in the traps of, for 10 points, which families of carnivorous plants?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pitcher
\b0 \ulnone  plants \
\
20. This country\'92s northernmost town is Longyearbyen, which is also the northernmost town in the world. This country\'92s capital city sits on the Aker River and it was formerly known as Christiania. This country is home to the 2008 European Capital of Culture, and the host of the 1994 Winter Olympics. Those cities are Stavanger and Lillehammer respectively. In 2011 Utoya Island in this country was the site of a massacre committed by Anders Behring Breivik. For 10 points, name this country which owns the Svalbard Archipelago and has its capital at Oslo. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Norway
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Norge
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Noreg
\b0 \ulnone )\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ul Bonuses\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ulnone 1. Transmitted by fecal contamination of food or water, this bacterial disease, then widely believed to be caused by miasma or bad air, was responsible for several 19th century pandemics.  For 10 points each: \
[10] This is which disease with a name derived from the Greek word for bile?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cholera
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Which 19\super th\nosupersub  century London physician, working in Soho, was able to prove that the disease was largely spread by infected water supplies? \
ANSWER: John 
\b \ul Snow
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Which Russian-born bacteriologist developed and used the first vaccines against both cholera and the bubonic plague in around 1900? \
ANSWER: Waldemar 
\b \ul Haffkine
\b0 \ulnone \
\
2. The novel this character appears in was put on the Catholic Church\'92s Index of banned books more than a century after its publication. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this protagonist from 
\i The Red and the Black
\i0 ,
\i  
\i0 who is sentenced to the guillotine after shooting Madam de Renal\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Julien
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul Sorel\

\b0 \ulnone [10] 
\i The Red and the Black 
\i0 is a novel by this author who is the namesake of an eponymous syndrome that affects people overwhelmed by the beauty of art.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Stendhal
\b0 \ulnone  (or Marie-Henri 
\b \ul Beyle)\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This other Stendhal novel tells of Fabrice del Dongo, who escapes from prison in the guise of a hussar before stumbling into the Battle of Waterloo\
ANSWER: The 
\i\b \ul Charterhouse of Parma
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
3. The 18th century was when British artists flourished 
\i en masse
\i0  for the first time.  For 10 points each:\
[10] In a 1766 work by Joseph Wright of Derby, on what is a philosopher lecturing?\
ANSWER: The 
\b \ul Orrery
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In this Gainsborough painting, the leftmost of the two title figures is holding a large gun that is being sniffed by a dog, while his wife, in a blue dress, sits on a bench to his left.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mr and Mrs Andrews
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Which artist painted a self-portrait with his pug dog Trump? He is, perhaps, better known for his satirical depictions of Beer Street and Gin Lane.\
ANSWER: William 
\b \ul Hogarth
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 4. Answer some questions about the most famous figure in British folkore, for 10 points each:\
[10] His hobbies included stealing from the rich, giving to the poor, archery and, more dubiously, wearing tights.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Robin Hood
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] According to some sources, Robin Hood holds this earldom. A pair of 16\super th\nosupersub  century plays by Anthony Munday about Robin Hood are titled after the Downfall and Death, respectively, of Robert, Earl of this place.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Huntington
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 [10] This is the name of the oak in Sherwood Forest that is reputed to be the shelter of Robin Hood.\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Major
\b0 \ulnone  Oak\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf0 5. Medieval monasticism saw waves of reform. The Cluniacs were at the 10\super th\nosupersub -century cutting-edge, but as they grew lax, a new order was spawned that dominated the 12\super th\nosupersub  century. For 10 points each:\
[10] This was which order, known as the White Monks, and named after an abbey near Dijon founded by Robert of Molesme?\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cistercians
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx0\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 [10] Which Saint and Abbot of Clairvaux was the dominant force behind the growth of the Cistercians and was the principal preacher of the Second Crusade? \
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: St. 
\b \ul Bernard
\b0  \ulnone of Clairvaux\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf0 [10] Which English Cistercian Saint and Abbot of Rievaulx wrote 
\i The Mirror of Charity
\i0  and a 
\i Life of Edward the Confessor
\i0 ?\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: St. 
\b \ul Ailred
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
6. This play centres on a naval cadet accused of stealing a postal order. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this play in which the great barrister Sir Robert Morton is hired to exculpate Ronnie.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Winslow Boy
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] 
\i The Winslow Boy
\i0  is a play by this British author of 
\i Separate Tables 
\i0 and 
\i The Browning Version.\

\i0 ANSWER: Terence 
\b \ul Rattigan
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Rattigan was not a fan of this group of British authors and playwrights, the name of which is derived from the title of a work by John Osborne.\
ANSWER: The 
\b \ul Angry Young Men\

\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf0 7. This 18\super th\nosupersub -century war was preceded by the Diplomatic Revolution, which saw France ally with traditional enemy Austria, and Britain with Prussia. For 10 points each: \
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 [10] Name this major conflict that broke out in 1756.\
\pard\tx0\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Seven Years
\b0 \ulnone \'92 War [prompt on \'93Third Silesian War\'94; do not accept \'93French and Indian War,\'94 \'93Pomeranian War,\'94 or \'93Third Carnatic War,\'94 none of which started in 1756]\
[10] State Chancellor from 1753-93, this Austrian statesman was the architect of the 1756 treaty of Versailles between France and the Habsburg monarchy.\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: Wenzel Anton, Prince von 
\b \ul Kaunitz
\b0 \ulnone -Rietberg\
\pard\tx0\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 [10] In 1757, the Franco-Austrian alliance against Prussia was joined by Russia and this other country, then dominated by the aggressive Hats party, which had supplanted the more peaceable Caps in 1738.\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Sweden
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
8. Adding the suffix \'91\'96gate\'92 to coin a name for a scandal is an all-too-widespread journalistic clich\'e9.  For 5 points each: \
[10] One of the earliest \'91-gate\'92 scandals in the UK concerned the shooting of a Great Dane on Exmoor in 1976, and led to the downfall of Liberal leader, Jeremy Thorpe.  Based on the dog\'92s name, this was which \'91-gate\'92?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Rinka\ulnone gate\

\b0 [10] Janet Jackson\'92s wardrobe malfunction at Super Bowl XXXVIII (38) became known as what?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nipple\ulnone gate
\b0 \
[10] Emails suggesting that data had been falsified caused the \'91Climategate\'92 scandal involving the Climate Research Unit at this British university.\
ANSWER:University of 
\b \ul East Anglia
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul UEA
\b0 \ulnone )\
\
\
9. After the rediscovery of Mendel\'92s work on genetics, it was Thomas Hunt Morgan who first showed that genes were located on chromosomes.  For 10 points each: \
[10] Hunt Morgan was able to reach this conclusion based on observations of this mutation in fruit flies\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul White eye
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on eye colour]\
[10] This word refers to one of a number of discrete alternative forms of the same gene or genetic locus\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Allele
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This word refers to number and visual appearance of chromosomes in cell nuclei of an organism or species. It can also refer to a photomicrograph of paired and ordered chromosomes.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Karyotype
\b0 \ulnone \
\
10. Religions that are not endowed with a long history or large faith communities are often dismissed as cults.  For 10 points each: \
[10] The heavily lambasted 2000 film 
\i Battlefield Earth 
\i0 is based on the ideas of which cult religion?\
ANSWER:
\b  \ul Scientology\ulnone  
\b0 or
\b  \ul Dianetics
\b0 \ulnone \
B.  Which leader of the Peoples Temple cult inspired a mass suicide by his followers in Guyana in 1978?\
ANSWER: Reverend Jim (James) 
\b \ul Jones\ulnone \

\b0 C.   Now called the Family International, the Children of God cult grew out of the hippie movement.  What 2-word term described the use of sexual enticement of potential converts used by its female members in the 1970s and \'9180s?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Flirty fishing\ulnone \

\b0 \
\pard\tx0\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 11. Answer some questions about 20\super th\nosupersub  century literature and its relationship to Sophocles\'92 
\i Antigone
\i0 , for 10 points each:  \
[10] This French dramatist wrote the tragedy 
\i Antigone
\i0  [on-tig-OWN], based on Sophocles and seen as an attack on the Nazi occupation of France?\
\pard\tx0\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER:  Jean 
\b \ul Anouilh\ulnone  
\b0 [on-wee]\
\pard\tx0\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 [10 This Irish poet and dramatist wrote 
\i The Burial at Thebes
\i0 , but is probably better known for dying last 2013 and his collection 
\i The Death of a Naturalist.\
\pard\tx0\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0

\i0 \cf0 ANSWER: Seamus 
\b \ul Heaney
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This South African playwright\'92s play 
\i The Island
\i0  tells of two prisoners trying to stage 
\i Antigone
\i0 , though he is probably better known for his plays \'93
\i Master Harold\'94\'85and the Boys\
\pard\tx0\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li360\fi-360\ri0

\i0 \cf0 ANSWER: Athol 
\b \ul Fugard\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
12. Answer some questions about electric Pokemon, for 10 points each.\
[10] By far the most famous of the Pokemon, this thunder mouse with a zig-zag tail was the first to belong to Ash Ketchum.\
ANSWER:
\b \ul \'a0Pikachu
\b0 \ulnone \
[10]This white squirrel-like Pokemon was introduced in Generation IV and can be found around the Fuego Ironworks and Valley Windworks.\
ANSWER:
\b \ul \'a0Pachirisu
\b0 \ulnone \
[10]This legendary bird is an electric and flying type. In Generation I it lived at the power plant, and made a \'93GYAOOOOOO\'94 sound before attacking.\
ANSWER:
\b \ul \'a0Zapdos
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 13. This event was triggered by a discovery at Sutter\'92s Mill on the American River. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this frenzy that began in 1848 and featured a large-scale westward migration.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul California Gold Rush
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 [10] In December 1848, this president confirmed the discovery of gold in California. This former \'93dark horse\'94 presided over the war that added California to the Union.\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: James K(nox) 
\b \ul Polk\
\pard\tx0\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone [10] The first group of Americans to arrive in California followed this trail south from Oregon. It was named for the mountain range one has to cross to travel between Oregon and California.\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Siskiyou
\b0 \ulnone  Trail\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
14. This winner of the Lenin and Stalin prizes nevertheless had a difficult relationship with the authorities. For 10 points each:\
[10] This Russian composer's Fifth Symphony is subtitled 
\i A Soviet Artist\'92s Response to Justified Criticism
\i0 . \
ANSWER: Dmitri Dmitriyevich 
\b \ul Shostakovich
\b0 \ulnone 	\
[10] This opera by Shostakovich that was banned after an editorial in Pravda titled 
\i Chaos Instead of Music. 
\i0 At the end, Sonyetka is pushed off a train into a river. \
ANSWER:
\b  
\i \ul Lady Macbeth
\b0 \ulnone  of the\ul  
\b Mtsensk
\b0 \ulnone  District\ul  
\i0 \ulnone \
[10] The fourth movement of this Shostakovich symphony, written after the Second World War, is a mournful bassoon solo punctuated by chords from the lower brass. The bassoon solo segues into the more jocular fifth movement, which is often interpreted as making fun of Soviet authorities.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Symphony No. 9
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\cf0 15. The southernmost point of this country is the relatively island of Surtsey, which was created in 1963. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this island country.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Iceland
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Iceland is volcanically active because it sits above this undersea mountain range, which was formed by the spreading of the North American and Eurasian plates.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mid-Atlantic Ridge
\b0 \ulnone  [not \'93range\'94]\
[10] An important \'93triple junction\'94 in the middle of the South Atlantic, formed by the junction of the South American, African, and Antarctic Plates, is named for this remote island.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Bouvet
\b0 \ulnone  Island [or 
\b \ul Bouvet
\b0 \ulnone  Triple Junction
\b ]\

\b0 \
16. Answer some questions involving unsaturated organic compounds. For 10 points each: \
[10] What is the name for compounds which contain a carbon-carbon double bond? \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Alkenes
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Olefins
\b0 \ulnone ) \
[10] This reaction sees the reaction between a diene and a dienophile such as a substituted alkene to form a cyclohexene system.  \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Diels-Alder
\b0 \ulnone  reaction \
[10] This rule states that for bridged rings, a double bond cannot be placed at the bridgehead owing to a combination of ring and angle strain. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Bredt\'92s 
\b0 \ulnone rule\
\
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 17. This country\'92s name was derived from an acronym for its major regions. For 10 points each:\
\pard\tx0\tx1080\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 [10] Name this country, whose creation was championed by the Muslim League, which adopted the Lahore Resolution.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pakistan
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This leader of the Muslim League and proponent of the Two-Nation Theory is often referred to as the father of Pakistan.\
ANSWER: Muhammad Ali 
\b \ul Jinnah
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx360\tx1080\pardeftab720\li357\fi-357\ri0
\cf0 [10] The \'93tan\'94 in \'93Pakistan\'94 refers to this region, whose capital is Quetta.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Balochistan
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
18. This poem describes how \'93on all sides I see you waist of fog.\'94 For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this poem that concludes that \'93thus in deep hours I have seen, over the fields, the ears of wheat tolling in the mouth of the wind\'94 \
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul Ah Vastness of Pines
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
[10] \'93Ah Vastness of Pines\'94 is the third poem in this collection, which opens with \'93Body of a Woman\'94\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] 
\i Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair 
\i0 is a collection by this preeminent Chilean poet and Nobel Laureate\
ANSWER: Pablo 
\b \ul Neruda
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
19. A simple machine is a device which changes the direction or magnitude of a force.\'a0 For 10 points each:\
[10]\'a0The ratio of the output force to the input force, a measure of the force amplification achieved by a simple machine, is described by this 2-word term.\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Mechanical advantage
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Given that the velocity ratio of a simple machine is fixed by its dimensions, what can be calculated by dividing a machine\'92s actual mechanical advantage by its velocity ratio?\
ANSWER: Mechanical\'a0
\b \ul efficiency
\b0 \ulnone \
[10]\'a0The Renaissance added the inclined plane to the 5 simple machines known to the ancient Greeks.\'a0 In 1586, this Flemish engineer derived the mechanical advantage of an inclined plane by an argument based on a string of beads.\
ANSWER:\'a0 Simon\'a0
\b \ul Stevin
\b0 \ulnone \
\
20.  For 10 points each, name some members of the cabinet of George W Bush: \
[10] This retired four-star general served as Bush\'92s first Secretary of State, and was the first African American to hold that post. \
ANSWER: Colin Luther 
\b \ul Powell
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This Taiwan-born politician was the first Chinese American to be appointed to a President\'92s Cabinet, serving as Secretary of Labour for the entire Bush Administration. \
ANSWER: Elaine Lan 
\b \ul Chao
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Chao Xiao Lan
\b0 \ulnone ) \
[10] This ex-governor of Pennsylvania served as Assistant to the President for Homeland Security until 2003 before becoming the first Secretary of Homeland Security. \
ANSWER: Thomas Joseph 
\b \ul Ridge
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
\
\
}