{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;}
{\info
{\author George}}\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13120\viewh14520\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri447\sl200\qj

\f0\b\fs34 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\

\b0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, P.J. Berry, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Round 2\
Sink the Bismarck + Chicago A\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
1. This man developed an equation which contains a collision term which is determined via the molecular chaos assumption. A constant named for this man appears raised to the fourth power in the numerator of Stefan\'92s constant. An equation which relates the natural log of the number of a system\'92s available microstates to the system\'92s entropy is engraved on this man\'92s tombstone. For 10 points, name this Austrian chemist who names a distribution particle speeds in a gas with James Maxwell.\
ANSWER: Ludwig 
\b \ul Boltzmann\
\

\b0 \ulnone 2. In this play, the attic of a house is full of treasures belonging to the \'93Flying Dutchman\'94, an old sea captain and former tenant.  That attic is a place for \'93transfiguration\'94, where the owner of the house becomes the great hunter of his youth.  One character in this play often refers to his \'93great invention\'94 which is related to photography, but it is in fact a \'93life illusion\'94 prescribed by the doctor Relling.  In this play, Gina is having an affair, which means that her daughter, who is losing her sight, may not be Hjalmar\'92s. For 10 points, name this Ibsen play in which Hedwig shoots herself rather than the title animal.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Wild Duck\
\

\i0\b0 \ulnone 3. A painting by this man shows myriad gold rowing boats flying blue or red flags. Another painting by this artist of 
\i Westminster Bridge
\i0  depicts a ramshackle city area with buildings in poor repair, and depicts, in its bottom left, a mother rushing to a boy who is both crying and urinating. This artist of 
\i The Stonemason\'92s Yard 
\i0 often depicted bright sunlit scenes, showing the festivals and pageantry of his home city in great detail.  For 10 points name this Italian artist, who spent nine years in England but is better known for his paintings of Venice.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Canaletto
\b0 \ulnone  or Giovanni Antonio 
\b \ul Canal \
\

\b0 \ulnone 4. One of these defines greatness as finding "quarrel in a straw / When honour's at stake". Another describes a woman's way of doting on her former husband "As if increase of appetite had grown / By what it fed on". One of these ends "My thoughts be bloody or be nothing worth!" after beginning "How all occasions do inform against me". Another of these describes death as "the undiscovered country from whose bourn / no traveller returns" and as "to sleep: perchance to dream". For 10 points, name these speeches given by a certain Shakespearean character, the most famous of which begins "To be or not to be". \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Hamlet's Soliloquies
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on "speeches spoken by Hamlet" or "speeches from 
\i Hamlet
\i0 "]\
\
5. The longest river on this island is the Poronay River, which flows south into the Gulf of Patience. Its inhabitants mostly displaced the indigenous Nivkhs and Oroks, and its capital city of Yuzhno has a large Korean minority that was not expelled when the Ainu were deported in 1945. The southern two-fifths of this island, known as the Prefecture of Karafuto, were renounced in the Treaty of San Francisco by Japan. Lying south of the Sea of Okhotsk and north of Hokkaido, this is, for 10 points, what largest island of Russia?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Sakhalin
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
6. A reaction named after this man and Melba Phillips occurs when a deuteron passes near a nucleus, allowing a nuclear reaction to occur at lower energies than would be predicted by calculating the Coulomb barrier.  An approximation which separates nuclear and electronic motions which allows the simplification of the Schrodinger equation is named for this man and Max Born. For 10 points, name this American physicist who was reminded of a phrase from the Baghavad Gita at the Trinity test, the father of the atomic bomb.\
ANSWER: J. Robert 
\b \ul Oppenheimer\
\

\b0 \ulnone 7. The overarching message of this has been summarised thus: \'93The Great King will come not only to judge his people, but also to bless and restore them.\'94  The author of this book criticises the audience for failing to honour God with their sacrifices, and states that the difference between those who have served God faithfully and those who have not will become clear in the eschaton.  The title of this book is also thought to be the name of its author, although this has been disputed because the name translates as \'93my messenger\'94, and Ezra has been proposed as another possible scribe.  For 10 points, name this final book in the Old Testament.\
ANSWER: Book of 
\b \ul Malachi
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Malachias
\i\b0 \ulnone \

\i0 \
8. In the initial stages of this larger battle, the eventual losers captured the town of Prokhorovka. It marked the battlefield debut of the Ferdinand, a vehicle designed by the Porsche factory that was later reintroduced as the Elefant, though the German advance ran into defensive lines that Georgiy Zhukov had been encouraged to build by intelligence from the Lucy Spy Ring. The Soviet counterattack in this battle eventually opened a 2,000-kilometer front. For 10 points, name this summer 1943 battle that was the largest tank battle in history.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: Battle of 
\b \ul Kursk
\b0 \ulnone  [accept Operation 
\b \ul Citadel
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\
9. Although in the key of C minor, this composer's eighth symphony begins with a sustained F in the violins and horns, followed by a chromatic motif in the low strings. The slow movement of this composer's seventh symphony was broadcast accompanying the news of Hitler's death. This composer also wrote two earlier symphonic works, which he discarded as being the works of a student, although the composer was in his late 30s at the time of writing.  These are now referred to as zero and double zero. Dedicated to \'93God the Beloved\'94, the ninth symphony written by, for ten points, this Austrian composer, was left incomplete upon his death.\
ANSWER: Anton 
\b \ul Bruckner
\b0 \ulnone \
\
10. In 2000, nine fans were suffocated to death at this band\'92s Roskilde Festival gig in Denmark. This band have promoted a number of causes, including Crohn\'92s disease from which guitarist Mike McCready suffers, and boycotted any venue which had a contract with Ticketmaster, which caused the delay of their third album 
\i Vitalogy
\i0 .  This band\'92s highest charting single in the US was the ballad 
\i Last Kiss
\i0 , but they are better known for guitar-led grunge behind the powerful vocals of Eddie Vedder.  For 10 points name this Seattle band who recorded 
\i Jeremy
\i0  and 
\i Alive.
\i0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pearl Jam\

\b0 \ulnone \
11. In one song this artist declares that \'93ever since I started puberty, I was lookin' in magazines just to see the nudity\'94 and notes that \'93I'm not trying to be pushy-pushy; I'm just in it for the pussy-pussy.\'94  A different song by this artist notes that the singer \'93treated life like it would never end\'94 and \'93didn't ever wanna sing this song again\'94 as that singer \'93never ever ever ever thought that it would ever get better\'94.  That song is \'93Strong Again\'94.  In a song from this artist's album 
\i Against All Odds
\i0 , one member of this group asks \'93Will I get a Face-back?\'94 before singing \'93I've been searching all over Facebook, and I can't seem to find you\'94.  For 10 points, identify this London hip hop trio known for hits like \'93I Need You\'94, composed of Fazer, Tulisa, and Dappy.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-335
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul N-Dubz
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
12. Lumacaftor and ivacaftor are two drugs designed to treat forms of this disease with different genetic aetiologies. This disease is the most common cause of distal intestinal obstruction syndrome and the related meconium ileus. The genetic mutations that cause this disease are also the most common cause of congenital absence of the vas deferens. Another effect of this disease is increased salinity of sweat, which can form the basis of a diagnostic test. For 10 points, name this disease caused by a defective chloride ion transporter which affects the lungs and pancreas.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cystic fibrosis\

\b0 \ulnone \
13. This philosopher wrote that \'93purity of heart is to will one thing\'94 and penned a paean to his mother tongue in 
\i Stages on Life\'92s Way
\i0 .  This man admired Socrates as a \'93noble, simple wise man\'94 in his 
\i Christian Discourse
\i0 .  This man argued that \'93subjectivity is truth\'94 in the sequel to his earlier 
\i Philosophical Fragments
\i0 , and in another work compares the ethical dilemmas facing Agamemnon and Abraham.  For 10 points, name this \'93father of existentialism\'94 who wrote 
\i Either/Or
\i0  and 
\i Fear and Trembling
\i0 .\
ANSWER: S\'f8ren 
\b \ul Kierkegaard\

\b0 \ulnone \
14. During its 1913 tour of Italy, this football club was described as being \'93without doubt\'85the finest foreign team seen in Italy\'94 by Corriere della Sera. This club currently holds the record for the most wins at the start of an English football season with 13 in 1985. In 2006, this club was promoted to the top flight of English football for the first time, amassing a record breaking 106 points to win the Championship, the highest ever in a professional English football league season. For 10 points name this English football club, currently of the second tier, and the only Football League team from the county of Berkshire.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Reading 
\b0 \ulnone FC\
\
15. One nominal leader of this polity, Solamish, was a seven-year-old whose 
\i atabeg
\i0 , Qalawun, allied with Michael VIII Palaiogos and defeated the Knights Hospitaller at Margat. This polity, which was divided into Bahri and Burji periods, was ruled by men primarily of Kipchak or Circassian origin, and its legitimacy was bolstered by Beybars\'92 victory over the Mongols at Ain Jalut in 1260. For 10 points, name this polity run by slave soldiers that ruled Egypt until the Ottoman invasion.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\qj
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mamluk
\b0 \ulnone  Sultanate [accept 
\b \ul Bahri
\b0 \ulnone  Dynasty before it is mentioned]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\
16. One of these poems asks its addressee not to love the speaker \'93for a trick of thought that falls in well with mine\'94. The speaker of one of these poems describes being drawn backward by the hair by a \'93mystic Shape\'94. One of these poems describes an action that the speaker perform \'93by sun and candle-light\'94 and \'93freely, as men strive for right\'94. One of these begins \'93I thought once how Theocritus had sung / Of the sweet years\'94, while the most famous begins \'93How do I love thee? Let me count the ways\'94. For 10 points, name these poems which its author purported to have translated from the title language, a collection by Elizabeth Barrett Browning. \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Sonnets from the Portuguese
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
17. A disease where a subtype of these cells proliferates is characterised by Birbeck Granules. Although these cells never express significant levels of myeloperoxidase or CD27, they express CD80 and CD86 when mature. The follicular subtype of this cell is the only type to have a mesenchymal origin. These cells act as the major bridge between the innate and adaptive immune system as they migrate to lymph nodes to activate T cells. For ten points, name these antigen presenting cells which derive their name from the Ancient Greek for tree.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Dendritic
\b0 \ulnone  cells [accept Langerhans cells until mentioned and macrophage until myeloperoxidase is mentioned]\
\
18. This leader introduced self-service cafeterias to his country after a tour of the IBM headquarters. He schemed to stimulate his country\'92s agricultural production in the Virgin Lands Campaign, and he got his political start when he cut corners to finish a subway project early. After winning a succession struggle over Vyacheslav Molotov and Georgy Malenkov, he denounced his predecessor\'92s cult of personality in his \'93Secret Speech.\'94 For 10 points, name shoe-banging successor to Stalin who faced off with John Kennedy in the Cuban Missile Crisis.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: Nikita 
\b \ul Khrushchev
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\
19. A poem within this story describes a \'93hideous throng\'94 rushing out of the pearl-and-ruby-encrusted doors of a monarch\'92s residence in a happy valley. That poem in this story was written by a character who expresses a belief in the sentience of all vegetable life. \'93The Haunted Palace\'94 appears in this story in which the tale of Ethelred slaying a dragon, from the \'93Mad Trist\'94 of Launcelot Canning, is read aloud by the narrator, before the reappearance of a figure who had been buried alive in the family vault. Lady Madeline frightens Roderick to death in, for 10 points, what Edgar Allan Poe story that ends with the sinking of the title building?  \
ANSWER: \'93The 
\b \ul Fall of the House of Usher
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
\
20. This historical figure becomes Constitutional Emperor of Europe in Robert Heinlein\'92s 
\i For Us, the Living
\i0 . His father apparently remarked of him, \'93After I am dead, the boy will ruin himself within twelve months.\'94 This man who had affairs with Freda Dudley and Lady Furness was part of Britain\'92s military mission in Paris in 1939. A bad omen befell this man when the Imperial State Crown fell from his father\'92s coffin; just a few years later, he ended up as governor general of the Bahamas. For 10 points, name this king who loved Wallis Simpson.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Edward VIII
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on \'93Edward\'94]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\ul Bonuses\ulnone \
\
1. Brian Sewell is quite an opinionated man.  Three questions on artists he has savaged, for 10 points each:\
[10] Sewell described this man\'92s exhibition at the Wallace Collection as \'93fucking dreadful\'94, and his Tate Modern exhibition, which included 
\i The Physical Impossibility of Death
\i0 , as \'93shiny shit\'94.\
ANSWER: Damian 
\b \ul Hirst
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Sewell dubbed this artist of 
\i Going to the Match, 
\i0 a \'93cloth-capped nincompoop\'94, whose \'93urban idiots, pop-eyed portraits and strange perspectives are the work of a trivial painter, a man of tricks, mannerisms and small things\'94.\
ANSWER: L. S. 
\b \ul Lowry
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This American pop and collage artist\'92s 1994 retrospective at the Tate was deemed \'93unworthy of a footnote in the history of figurative art\'94 by Sewell. \
ANSWER: R.B. 
\b \ul Kitaj
\b0 \ulnone  [Ki-TIE]
\b \ul \
\

\b0 \ulnone 2. This group of German intellectuals gathered regularly at Hippel\'92s Weinstube in the 1840s, and rejected the idea that philosophical development had come to an end.  For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this group, titled after a philosopher who had died around ten years previously. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Young Hegelians
\b0 \ulnone  or
\b  \ul Left Hegelians
\b0 \ulnone  (do not accept or prompt on 
\b \ul Old Hegelians
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Right Hegelians
\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] This Young Hegelian argued that the reverence we have for God is really reverence for Man the species, in his 
\i The Essence of Christianty
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Ludwig 
\b \ul Feuerbach
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] 
\i The Essence of Christianity
\i0  strongly influenced this man, who used Feuerbach\'92s ideas in his Theory of Alienation.  He is better known for his 
\i Communist Manifesto.
\i0 \
ANSWER: Karl 
\b \ul Marx
\b0 \ulnone \
\
3. The city of Edirne, also known as Adrianople, is in the western part of this country. For 10 points each:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 [10] Name this country whose western part is known as Thrace.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Turkey
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] A section near Edirne is the only part of the land border between Greece and Turkey that is not formed by this river.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Maritsa
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Evros
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] The Maritsa River rises in the Rila Mountains of this country, which is the only other European country to border Turkey.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Bulgaria
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\
4. This practice decrees that all Muslims must pray five times daily.  For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this principle, one of the five Pillars of Islam.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Salat\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Salat is compulsory for all individuals of this age and older.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul 10\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Every time a Muslim offers Salat, these prescribed movements and words must be followed.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Rakat\

\b0 \ulnone \
5. This composer of 
\i Symphony of Sorrowful Songs
\i0  died in 2010.  For 10 points:\
[10] Name this composer, whose aforementioned third symphony commemorated victims of the Holocaust in his native Poland.\
ANSWER: Henryk 
\b \ul Gorecki
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This other Polish composer wrote only piano music, including Mazurkas, Polonaises, and the Revolutionary Etude in C minor.\
ANSWER: Fr\'e9deric 
\b \ul Chopin
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This fellow Polish composer composed a piece for 52 string instruments called
\i  Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima
\i0 .  His second symphony, named 
\i Christmas
\i0  makes frequent use of the melody of 
\i Silent Night
\i0 , and his operas include 
\i The Devils of Loudon
\i0 , 
\i Paradise Lost
\i0 , and 
\i The Black Mask
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Krzysztof 
\b \ul Penderecki\

\b0 \ulnone \
6. Despite being the favourite to win the Best Director Oscar on previous occasions, this film was the first for which Martin Scorsese won the award.  For 10 points:\
[10] Name this film, starring Matt Damon, Leonardo Di Caprio, and Jack Nicholson, set in Boston, Massachusetts.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Departed\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] Jack Nicholson\'92s character in 
\i The Departed
\i0 , Frank Costello, is loosely based on this organised crime leader, who previously worked as an FBI informant.  He was later leader of the Winter Hill Gang in Boston, and was arrested in Santa Monica, California in 2011.\
ANSWER: James \'93Whitey\'94 
\b \ul Bulger
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The Departed was a remake of this 2002 film, made in Hong Kong, and starring Andy Lau.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Infernal Affairs
\b0 \ulnone  (do not accept 
\b \ul Internal Affairs
\b0 \ulnone )
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone \
7. After an unsuccessful uprising in this country, its water polo team played a legendary game with the Soviet team that left blood in the water. For 10 points each:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 [10] Name this country, which the Soviet army invaded in 1956.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Hungary
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This reformer declared himself the head of government in Hungary during the uprising; he was hanged two years later.\
ANSWER: Imre 
\b \ul Nagy
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] After the deposition of Imre Nagy, this man was installed as Hungary\'92s pro-Soviet leader.\
ANSWER: Janos 
\b \ul K\'e1d\'e1r
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
8. This award has been given annually since 1993, when its first winner was Melvyn Bragg.  For 10 points,\
[10] Name this prize awarded by 
\i Literary Review
\i0 , the stated aim of which is to discourage poor descriptions of a certain act. Past winners include Tom Wolfe and A. A Gill.\
ANSWER: The 
\b \ul Bad Sex in Fiction
\b0 \ulnone  Award (accept 
\b \ul Bad Sex\ulnone  
\b0 Award, 
\b \ul Bad Sex in Literature
\b0 \ulnone  Award, and variations thereof) \
[10] This man won it for a scene that included the line \'93ready at last to grind into her with the Hound, drive it into her piety\'94 from his novel 
\i The Castle in the Fortress
\i0 . He was better known, however, for his pugnacious nature and novels such as 
\i The Naked and the Dead
\i0 \
ANSWER: Norman 
\b \ul Mailer\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Sentences such as \'93meanwhile her ears were filled with the sound of a soft but frantic gasping and it was some time before she identified it as her own\'94 from this man\'92s novel 
\i Charlotte Gray
\i0  won him the prize in 1998\
ANSWER: Sebastian 
\b \ul Faulks\
\

\b0 \ulnone 9. This substance is one of the major dietary antioxidants, found in particularly high concentrations in fruits such as citrus fruits and berries, and green vegetables.  For 10 points each:\
[10] This acid, more commonly called Vitamin C has been shown to be vital in preventing the development of scurvy.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ascorbic
\b0 \ulnone  acid or
\b  \ul ascorbate\ulnone \

\b0 [10] This antioxidant tripeptide is administered in cases of paracetamol overdose, where it detoxifies one of the drug\'92s metabolites\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Glutathione\

\b0 \ulnone [10] It is the thiol group of this amino acid residue that allows glutathione to act as an antioxidant.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cysteine\
\

\b0 \ulnone 10. For 10 points each, answer some questions about electron transfer:\
[10] An important quantity in electron transfer reactions is this constant named after an English physicist, equal to the total charge on a mole of electrons.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Faraday
\b0 \ulnone \'92s constant\
[10] This theory was developed to explain the rates of outer sphere electron transfer reactions. It assumes that a reorganisation energy \uc0\u955  [LAMBDA] is required to reorganise solvent molecules prior to electron transfer.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Marcus
\b0 \ulnone  Theory\
[10] Marcus theory was extended to describe inner sphere electron transfers, one of which can occur when this triatomic anion with formula N\sub 3\super -\nosupersub  forms a bridge between two reacting species.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Azide
\b0 \ulnone \
\
11. These anti-ship missiles take their name from the French word for flying fish.\'a0For 10 points each:\uc0\u8232 [10] Name these missiles, which can be launched from aircraft, surface vessels, and submerged submarines, and which were largely responsible for the sinking of the HMS Sheffield in the Falklands war.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Exocet\

\b0 \ulnone [10] These missiles are the only land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles in the United States, and may be equipped to carry nuclear warheads.\'a0Their name refers to the short notice at which they can be launched.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Minuteman
\b0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 [10] This North Korean missile, the second iteration of a design derived from Scud missile technology, has only been tested once, in 2006, and failed within a minute of its launch.\'a0It has a range of approximately 6,000 kilometers, making it the longest range missile in the North Korean arsenal.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Taepodong
\b0 \ulnone -2\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\
12. This event was won by Ryan Riess in 2013, with previous winners including Phil Hellmuth, Johnny Moss and Doyle \'93Texas Dolly\'94 Brunson.  For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this gaming event held annually in Las Vegas since 1970, which netted Jamie Gold a record $12 million in 2006.\
ANSWER: World Series of 
\b \ul Poker Main Event
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Poker World Championship
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Texas Hold \'91Em World Championship
\b0 \ulnone  or word variants thereof, prompt on 
\b \ul Poker
\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] Since 2008, the final table of the Main Event has been played several months after the rest of the tournament in order to increase viewing figures.  This alliterative title is given to those players at the final table, coming from both their number and the month in which it is played.\
ANSWER: The 
\b \ul November Nine
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This appropriately named amateur, who won his seat at the 2003 Main Event by winning a $39 satellite tournament, is credited with the surge of public interest in poker after his victory against a field of professionals netted him $2.5 million. \
ANSWER: Chris 
\b \ul Moneymaker\

\b0 \ulnone \
13. Three questions on literary drownings, for 10 points each:\
[10] Edna Pointellier drowns herself at the conclusion of this Kate Chopin short story\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Awakening
\i0 \

\b0 \ulnone [10] The villainous entomologist Jack Stapleton drowns in the Great Grimpen mire in this story about a phosphorous-covered dog.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Hound of the Baskervilles
\i0 \

\b0 \ulnone [10] Rosanna Spearman drowns herself in the local quicksand after becoming a suspect in the theft of this novel\'92s title object, but it is later revealed that her suicide was due to her unrequited love for the novel\'92s hero, Franklin Blake.\
ANSWER: 
\i The
\i0  
\i\b \ul Moonstone
\i0 \
\

\b0 \ulnone 14. In one work, this character grants his follower Chume the right to beat Amope. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this charlatan preacher who becomes general of the Apostolic Salvation Army in one of the two plays titled for him. \
ANSWER: Brother 
\b \ul Jero
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Jeroboam
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] The creator of Brother Jero wrote this play in which Simon Pilkings prevents the ritual suicide of Elesin. \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Death and the King's Horseman 
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The Jero plays and 
\i Death and the King's Horseman
\i0  are by this Nobel prize-winning Nigerian playwright. \
ANSWER: Akinwande Oluwole "Wole" 
\b \ul Soyinka\
\

\b0 \ulnone 15. Some annals from the state of Lu gave this name to the period from 771 to 476 BC. For 10 points each:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 [10] Name this latter period of the declining Zhou Dynasty.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Spring and Autumn
\b0 \ulnone  Period [accept 
\b \ul Spring and Autumn
\b0 \ulnone  Annals; accept 
\b \ul Chunqiu
\b0 \ulnone  Shidai]\
[10] During the Zhou Dynasty, China\'92s emperors began to use this concept to legitimize their rule. It claimed that their right to rule was granted by a power known in Chinese as \'93tian.\'94\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mandate of Heaven
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] By the time Confucius died in 479 BC, the Spring and Autumn Period had given way to this period of conflict and chaos. This period was followed by China\'92s unification under the Qin Dynasty.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Warring States
\b0 \ulnone  Period [or 
\b \ul Zhanguo
\b0 \ulnone  Shidai] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\
16. When we first meet him, this character is 26 years old and a MagiPeeler salesman in Brewer, Pennsylvania.  For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this former high-school basketball star, the eponymous character in a tetralogy of novels.\
ANSWER: Harry \'93
\b \ul Rabbit
\b0 \ulnone \'94 
\b \ul Angstrom
\b0 \ulnone  (accept either underlined answer)\
[10] This American author won two Pulitzer Prizes for Fiction for 
\i Rabbit is Rich
\i0  and 
\i Rabbit at Rest
\i0 . \
ANSWER: John 
\b \ul Updike\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This wife of Rabbit spends a lot of time boozing, and runs off with Harry\'92s friend Charlie in 
\i Rabbit Redux
\i0 .  \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Janice
\b0 \ulnone  Springer\
\
17. This king reorganized the Fyrd militia and won the Battle of Edlington. For 10 points each:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 [10] Name this monarch who signed the Treaty of Wedmore.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Alfred
\b0 \ulnone  the Great\
[10] Alfred the Great ruled this kingdom, which was located mostly to the south and west of the Thames.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Wessex
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Alfred is known for making a translation of this book by Pope Gregory I, which outlined the proper standards and practices for clergymen.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Pastoral Care
\i0\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\i\b \ul Liber Regulae Pastorilis
\i0\b0 \ulnone  or 
\i\b \ul Regula Pastoralis
\i0\b0 \ulnone ]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
18. These organisms are unable to generate the organic molecules required for nutrition.  For 10 points each:\
 [10] Name this type of organism, which has to obtain nutrition from external sources due to an inability to fix carbon.  Examples include animals and fungi.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Heterotrophs\ulnone  
\b0 or
\b  \ul heterotrophic\ulnone \

\b0 [10] This type of heterotrophic nutrition involves an organism using extracellular digestion to feed on the dead remains of other organisms.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Saprotrophic nutrition\ulnone  
\b0 [accept
\b  \ul saprotroph\ulnone  
\b0 or
\b  \ul saprobiont
\b0 \ulnone ]
\b \

\b0 [10] This type of heterotrophic nutrition involves an organism obtaining its food from another living organism, termed the host.  The host is adversely affected, distinguishing it from commensalism.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Parasitic nutrition
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul parasitism
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul parasite
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
19. The four levels of development of this concepts are named for the biblical Eve, Helen of Troy, the Virgin Mary, and the Greek personification of wisdom as Sophia. For 10 points each: \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-335
\cf0 [10] Name this anthropomorphic archetype of the unconscious mind, which represent the female qualities present in the male personality. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul anima
\b0 \ulnone  (do NOT prompt on or accept \'93animus\'94) \
[10] The concepts of  anima and animus were posited by this Swiss founder of analytical psychology, a distinct branch from Freud\'92s psychoanalysis.\
ANSWER: Carl (Gustav) 
\b \ul Jung
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Jung\'92s archetypes inspired the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, which arranges people\'92s personalities along four dichotomies. Name any two of these dichotomies. \
ANSWER 
\b \ul Extraversion/Introversion
\b0 \ulnone  [accept word forms like: \'93Extraverted/Introverted\'94], 
\b \ul Sensing/Intuition
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Thinking/Feeling
\b0 \ulnone , and 
\b \ul Judging/Perception
\b0 \ulnone  [accept any two pairs] \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
20. This metal has the greatest binding energy per nucleon of all the elements.  For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this element with atomic number 26, whose ores include magnetite.\
ANSWER:
\b  \ul Iron
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Iron forms a complex with two cyclopentadienyl anions; the complex is known by this specific name.\
ANSWER:
\b  \ul Ferrocene
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The cyclopentadienyl anions in ferrocene have a value of five for this quantity symbolised \uc0\u951  [ETA], the number of consecutive carbon atoms which bond to the central metal ion.\
ANSWER:
\b  \ul Hapticity\
}