{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;\red62\green69\blue76;}
{\info
{\title Oxford Open 2014- Do You Want to Get with Women}
{\author Ewan MacAulay}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\vieww13160\viewh14520\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl200

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl200

\b0 \cf0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Round 6\
Lasletts
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Tossups\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ulnone \
1. One leader of this dynasty, Ahmad Sanjar, confronted the Western Liao Dynasty in the Battle of Qatwan. A book of advice for a ruler of this dynasty was the 
\i Siyasatnama
\i0 , which the vizier Nizam al-Mulk wrote for Malik Shah. A western branch of this dynasty founded a state named for \'93Rum\'94 that challenged the Byzantines, whom Alp Arslan had previously defeated near lake Van in the 1071 Battle of Manzikert, allowing the Turkicization of Anatolia. Baghdad was captured in 1055 by, for 10 points, what Turkish dynasty that evicted the Buyids?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Seljuk
\b0 \ulnone  Turks\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl100
\cf0 2. In one episode of this series, the main cast are forced to re-enact a dead civilisation's mythology by a series of reality-warping pictograms, and in another, a main character has to contend with linguistic problems as well as an invisible monster when trapped on the planet of El-Adrel. Updates from this series\'92 predecessor included moving the setting to the 2360s and changing the opening monologue\'92s reference to \'93no man\'94 to be gender-neutral. FTP, name this television series about the voyages of the Enterprise-D, captained by Patrick Stewart\'92s Jean-Luc Picard. \uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Star Trek: The Next Generation
\b0 \ulnone  (prompt on \'91Star Trek\'92 or \'91TNG\'92)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl100
\cf0 3. This religion espouses the adoption of a global auxiliary language. Members of this religion often wear rings bearing the \'91ringstone\'92 symbol, symbolising the connection between God and Man.. A history of this religion is given in a book titled 
\i God Passes By
\i0 . The central tenets of this religion are the unities of god, religion and humanity, as stated in its holy book, the 
\i Kitab-i-Aqdas
\i0 . This religion sees both Abrahamic and Dharmic figures as messengers of God, and its most recent messengers are its founder and a man known as the B\'e1b. FTP, name this Eastern monotheistic religion founded in the 19\super th\nosupersub  century by Bah\'e1\'92u\'92ll\'e1h, whose symbol is a nine-pointed star.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: The
\b \ul  Baha\'92i 
\b0 \ulnone Faith\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl210
\cf0 4.
\fs34  
\fs30 Recorded 
\i a capella
\i0  by the Futureheads for their 2012 album 
\i Rant
\i0 , this song is the oldest known example of six-part polyphony. This song was parodied in Ezra Pound's poem \'91Ancient Music\'92, featuring lines such as \'93Raineth drop and staineth slop/And how the wind doth ramm!\'94. Sometimes known as the Reading Rota, due to its manuscript\'92s discovery in the eponymous cathedral, this song was memorably performed by Christopher Lee at the end of Robin Hardy\'92s 
\i The Wicker Man
\i0 . For ten points, name this 13\super th\nosupersub -century English folk song, celebrating the arrival of a season.\cf3 \uc0\u8232 \cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul \'91
\i Sumer Is Icumen In
\i0 \'92
\b0 \ulnone  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
5. Hilke Kuhlmann wrote about an attempt to implement this man\'92s ideas. He wrote about Eric Blair confessing his identity as George Orwell before seeking out T.E. Frazier in\'a0
\i News from Nowhere, 1984
\i0 , which was printed as a sequel to his book about a society governed by a Board of Planners and inspired by Henry David Thoreau,\'a0
\i Walden Two
\i0 . He also asserted the human free will is an illusion in\'a0
\i Beyond Freedom and Dignity
\i0 . For 10 points, name this proponent of behaviorism whose operant conditioning chambers were known as his namesake \'93boxes.\'94
\fs34 \

\fs30 ANSWER: B(urrhus) F(rederic)\'a0
\b \ul Skinner
\b0\fs34 \ulnone \

\fs30 \
\
\page 6. This chemical undergoes an ene reaction with chromyl chloride followed by a 2,3-sigmatropic rearrangement to give benzaldehyde in the \'c9tard reaction. It\'92s not methylene diphenyl, but the diisocyanate of this chemical is used in the manufacture of polyurethane foam. This aromatic chemical is used as an octane booster in petrol. One use of this chemical is as a solvent for fullerenes, which gives a bright purple solution. For 10 points, name this chemical with systematic name methylbenzene which is trinitrated to give TNT.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Toluene
\b0 \ulnone  (accept \'91methylbenzene\'92 before it is said)\
\
7. One story by this author follows D'Arrast's attempts to help a sailor complete a pilgrimage. That story is \'91The Growing Stone\'92, and is from the  collection 
\i Exile and the Kingdom
\i0 . In one novel by this man, the narrator helps Raymond write a letter to convince an unnamed girlfriend to have sex with him, only to throw her out at the last minute. Another of his novels follows the people of the city of Oran as a quarantine cuts them off from the world. FTP, name this Algerian-born author of 
\i La Peste 
\i0 and 
\i L\'92\'c9tranger
\i0 .\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: Albert
\b \ul  Camus\

\b0 \ulnone \
8. When two of these events occur within 1400 kilometres of each other, they become subject to the Fuijwhara effect. The intensity of these events is measured on the Saffir-Simpson scale. Processes in these events include eyewall replacement cycles and the central dense overcast. They are formed by the angular momentum of the Earth's rotation, so rarely form within 5 degrees of the equator. FTP, name these rotating storm systems formed over bodies of warm water.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tropical cyclones
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul hurricanes
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul typhoons 
\b0 \ulnone prompt on 
\b \ul cyclones
\b0 \ulnone )\
\
9. The main character of this work is seduced by the sacred prostitute Shamhat, who proceeds to have sex with him for seven days. The two main versions of this poem are known as \'91Surpassing All Other Kings\'92 and \'91He Who Saw the Deep\'92. In another episode from this poem, the title character has a number of ominous dreams, including one about a fire-breathing thunderbird, while climbing Cedar Mountain to slay Humbaba. FTP, name this eighteenth-century BC Sumerian poem, considered one of the first works of literature.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: The
\b \ul  Epic of Gilgamesh
\b0 \ulnone  (prompt on \'91Gilgamesh\'92) \
\
10. Richard Lyons was killed during this event, in which crowds went from house to house killing people who had Flemish-sounding names. One direct precursor of this event was the ouster of John de Gisborne as mayor of York, four years after a similar period of discontent known as the Great Rumour. Its participants deposed Simon Sudbury as Archbishop of Canterbury, and it reached its climax with a swordfight at Smithfield between William Walworth, the mayor of London, and its leader. For 10 points, name this rebellion led by Wat Tyler.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Peasant\'92s Revolt
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul Wat Tyler\'92s Rebellion
\b0 \ulnone  before Wat Tyler is mentioned]\
\
11. A mutation in RUNX2 can cause this structure to fail to develop in a condition called Marie-Sainton syndrome. One end of this structure develops intramembranously while other end develops endochondrally. This structure is the first of its type to begin ossification, but is usually the last to finish. Medially this bone articulates at a synovial joint with an intra-articular disc and laterally this bone articulates with the acromion of the scapula. For ten points, give the name of this sigmoid shaped structure which is known as the collar bone.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Clavicle
\b0 \ulnone  [accept collar bone until read]\
\
12. This man, who wrote a paper titled \'93The Natural History of Insects\'94 at age nine, popularized the term \'93nature faker\'94 to describe somebody who anthropomorphizes animals. He contrasted \'93ignoble ease\'94 with \'93the strenuous life\'94 in a speech promoting sports. After losing money ranching in North Dakota, he wrote 
\i Winning the West
\i0 . This author of 
\i The Naval War of 1812
\i0  described his foreign policy as \'93speak softly and carry a big stick.\'94 For 10 points, name this Republican president who fought with the Roughriders in the Spanish-American War.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul T
\b0 \ulnone heodore \'93Teddy\'94 
\b \ul Roosevelt
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on \'93Roosevelt\'94]\
\
\page 13. In a 1921 letter from this poem\'92s dedicatee to its author, the poem \'91Sage Homme\'92 compares the latter to a mother and the former to a midwife. This poem was allegedly inspired by Thomas Gray\'92s 
\i Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard
\i0 . Originally, this work was titled 
\i He Do the Police in Different Voices
\i0 , and two of its sections were published under this title \'96 these sections later became \'91The Burial of the Dead\'92 and \'91A Game of Chess\'92. Famous quotes from this poem include \'93I will show you fear in a handful of dust\'94, as well as the mantra \'93shantih shantih shantih\'94. FTP, name this famously impenetrable 1922 poem by TS Eliot.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\i The
\b \ul  Waste Land
\i0\b0 \ulnone  \
\
14. In this country, the Kamares Aqueduct brings water to the city of Larnaca, a modern transportation hub that lies near the archaeological sites of Kition. The British-occupied area of Akrotiri and Dhekelia in this country lies just west of the port city of Limassol. Much of this country\'92s fertile land lies in the Mesaoria, a plain between the Troodos Mountains and the Kyrenia Range. Deriving its name from the Latin word for \'93copper,\'94 this country is divided by a Green Line. For 10 points, name this island country whose capital is Nicosia.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cyprus
\b0 \ulnone \
\
15. After this man\'92s mother died, he ordered that no crops be planted and no milk be consumed and executed 7,000 people for not demonstrating enough grief. He expanded his realm by annexing the Mthethwa Paramountcy, and he won a victory over Zwide to earn the nickname \'93spear that is red even on the handle.\'94 His army gained ground by \'93scattering\'94 rivals and incorporating them into his state. He attacked Port Natal and believed in the power of spears. For 10 points, name this brutal warrior king of the Zulu kingdom. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Shaka
\b0 \ulnone \
\
16. This effect leads to electrostatically-levitated \'91fountains of dust\'92 on the Moon. A formula for the energy distribution of particles released by this process contains a term for the work function of the surface involved. The dependency of this effect on frequency rather than intensity provided evidence for the quantised nature of light. An explanation of this effect won Albert Einstein his Nobel Prize. For 10 points, name this quantum effect whereby an electrical current is produced by the action of light on metal.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: The
\b \ul  photoelectric effect
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul photoionisation
\b0 \ulnone )\
\
17. One of this author\'92s novels follows the adventures of Tito Melema and the title character in 15\super th\nosupersub -century Florence, and another tells of the deeds of the eponymous activist in the town of Treby during the 1832 Reform Act. As well as 
\i Romola 
\i0 and 
\i Felix Holt, the Radical
\i0 , this author wrote her greatest work, subtitled \'91A Study of Provincial Life\'92 and following the day-to-day events in the titular town. FTP, name this author of 
\i Middlemarch
\i0 , born Mary Anne Evans but better known under a male nom de plume.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: George
\b \ul  Eliot 
\b0 \ulnone (accept Mary Ann Evans before it is said)\
\
18.  A woman with a red bow in her hat appears on the right of a painting this man, just behind a seated man smoking a pipe. In the foreground of that painting is a woman in a blue and cream striped dress leans on the back of a bench. Another work by this artist of 
\i Dance at Le Moulin de la Glatte 
\i0 depicts a man in a white vest and straw cap leaning on a balustrade on the left of a painting in the centre of which stand many bottles of wine. For 10 points, identify this painter of 
\i Luncheon of the Boating Party
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste 
\b \ul Renoir\

\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl100
\cf0 19. These people were first brought together by Hungarian producer Alexander Korda to make The Spy in Black. One film by this pair featured a gigantic special effect constructed by the London Passenger Transport Board under the codename 'Operation Ethel'. In one sequence in the same film, time is stopped during a table tennis game by a man known only as Conductor 71. Other works from this pair include an adaptation of Chaucer's 
\i Canterbury Tales
\i0 , and the Hans Christian Andersen story \'91The Red Shoes\'92. FTP, name this British filmmaking duo known as \'91the Archers\'92, makers of 
\i A Matter of Life and Death 
\i0 and 
\i Black Narcissus
\i0 .\uc0\u8232 Michael
\b \ul  Powell 
\b0 \ulnone and Emeric
\b \ul  Pressburger
\b0 \ulnone  (accept \'91the Archers\'92 before it is said)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
20. According to one text, these figures can be king-like, boatman-like or shepherd-like - that text is the 
\i Kun-bzang bla-ma'i zhal-lung
\i0 . According to another text, these figures travel five paths, covering 52 stages. One of these figures, associated with meditation and transcendental knowledge, was Manjusri. They aren\'92t buddhas, but one of these, known as 
\i ajita
\i0 , is prophesised to arrive on earth to teach the true dharma - he is Maitreya. Another of these figures, associated with compassion, is called Chenzerig in Tibet, but is better known as Guanyin. FTP, name these enlightened figures in Buddhism.\uc0\u8232 
\b \ul Bodhisattvas
\b0 \ulnone  (accept \'91Bodhisattas\'92 if people decide they suddenly want to speak Pali)\
\
\
21. In 1943, this material was tested for use in replacing the copper one-cent coin, though steel was eventually decided upon. Coloured and transparent varieties of this material were produced by the Catalin and Prystal Corporations. The first prototype for this material was called Novolak, as it was intended as a replacement for shellac. Synthesised from phenol and formaldehyde, this was the first synthetic thermosetting plastic. FTP, name this plastic, invented in 1907 by Belgian chemist Leo Baekeland.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Bakelite
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ul Bonuses\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ulnone \
1. Have some bonuses on astronomical limits. For 10 points each: \uc0\u8232 [10] This limit describes the orbital radius inside which a celestial body\'92s satellite will be disintegrated by tidal forces, forming planetary rings.\u8232 ANSWER: The
\b \ul  Roche limit\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This triply eponymous limit, roughly equal to between 1.5 and 3 solar masses, is the upper limit on the mass of neutron stars before they collapse into denser forms.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: The
\b \ul  Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff limit\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] Related to the Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff limit, this is the radius into which a given mass must be compressed in order to cause its collapse into a black hole, at which point it becomes its event horizon.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: The
\b \ul  Schwarzschild radius\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl210

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
2. Now for your bonuses on Minimalist composers. FTPE: \uc0\u8232 [10] This American minimalist composer and keyboard player in his eponymous \'91Ensemble\'92 wrote the \'91Portrait Trilogy\'92, a series of operas based on the lives of Akhenaten, Gandhi, and Albert Einstein.\u8232 ANSWER: Philip
\b \ul  Glass\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This composer and Juilliard classmate of Glass is known for his use of phased loops and recorded dialogue to create melodies, a style exemplified in his 1988 composition \'91Different Trains\'92.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: Steve
\b \ul  Reich\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This Estonian Minimalist composer is best known for his \'91tintinnabuli\'92 compositional style, featuring repeated arpeggiated triads and first used in his works 
\i F\'fcr Alina
\i0  and 
\i Spiegel im Spiegel
\i0 . He also composed the 
\i Cantus in Memoriam Benjamin Britten.
\i0 \uc0\u8232 ANSWER: Arvo
\b \ul  P\'e4rt\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 3. Now, have some bonuses on plays with small casts. FTPE:\uc0\u8232 [10] This 1962 play centres on a woman buried up to her chest, and later her neck, in the earth \'96 her husband only has a few lines, and only appears on stage in the closing moments, and the only other being to enter the stage is a single ant.\u8232 ANSWER:
\i  
\b \ul Happy Days
\i0\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\i Oh les beaux jours
\i0 ) 
\b \ul \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This iconic play features only five actors, one of whom plays two boys who may or may not be the same person, and one of whom is mute throughout apart from a rambling, disjointed \'91think\'92 near the end of Act I. \uc0\u8232 ANSWER:
\b \ul  
\i Waiting for Godot
\i0  
\b0 \ulnone (accept 
\i En attendant Godot
\i0 ) 
\b \ul \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] 
\i Happy Days 
\i0 and 
\i Waiting for Godot
\i0  are both works for the stage by which Irish playwright and author?\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: Samuel
\b \ul  Beckett
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 4. Bonuses on mythology, for 10 points each:\
[10] This deity, associated with fertility, rice, tea, agriculture and industry, is varyingly depicted as male, female, androgynous, and a group of up to five individuals, although its most common depiction is that of a white fox, after the animals seen as its messengers.\uc0\u8232 
\b \ul Inari
\f1\b0 \ulnone  \uc0\u332 kami (accept \u332 inari)
\f0\b \ul \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This goddess, born when her father Izanagi washed out his left eye after entering the underworld, is stated to be the ancestor of all Emperors of Japan, as well as the creator of their Imperial Regalia.\uc0\u8232 
\b \ul Amaterasu
\f1\b0 \ulnone -\uc0\u333 mikami (accept \u332 hirume-no-muchi-no-kame) 
\f0\b \ul \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] Inari and Amaterasu are both figures from which indigenous Japanese religion?\uc0\u8232 
\b \ul Shinto\
\

\b0 \ulnone 5. This man was stripped of his title of Shirt Wearer after he was found cavorting with Black Buffalo Woman, the wife of No Water. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this leader who got his first trance visions after witnessing the death of Conquering Bear.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Crazy Horse
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Crazy Horse was a leader of this branch of the Lakota people, who were in turn part of the Sioux nation. Today, this name is given to the aquifer under the Great Plains.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Oglala
\b0 \ulnone  Lakota [accept 
\b \ul Oglala
\b0 \ulnone  Aquifer]\
[10] Crazy Horse led one of the war parties at this 1876 battle, where George Armstrong Custer had his fatal \'93last stand.\'94\
ANSWER: Battle of 
\b \ul Little Bighorn\
\

\b0 \ulnone 6. The Medina of this city is often considered the world\'92s largest car-free urbanized area. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this walled city home to the Qarawiyyin Mosque, which is recognized as the world\'92s oldest university. It was the historical capital of the Marinid Dynasty.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Fez
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul Fes
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Fez, like Marrakech, is one of the three so-called \'93imperial cities\'94 of this country.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Morocco
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This former capital city of Moulay Isma\'92il, located near the Roman ruins of Volubilis, is the third imperial city of Morocco. It was the capital of the Sultanate of Morocco in the early 18\super th\nosupersub  century.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Meknes
\b0 \ulnone \
\
7. This novel is narrated by George Bowling. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this novel in which Bowling  uses some money won at a horserace to revisit his childhood home of Lower Binfield, which is bombed at the end of the book.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Coming Up for Air
\i0 \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] 
\i Coming Up for Air
\i0  is a work of this English author, better known for his essays, memoirs and political fiction, including 
\i 1984
\i0 .\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: George 
\b \ul Orwell 
\b0 \ulnone or Eric Arthur 
\b \ul Blair\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This Orwell book is account of his time in the two title cities upon his return from Burma.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Down and Out in London and Paris
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
8. Have some bonuses on amino acids, for 10 points each: \uc0\u8232 [10] This amino acid is a precursor to tyrosine, dopamine, norepinephrine, epinephrine and melanin, as well as being present in breast milk and used as a food additive for its reputed antidepressant and analgesic properties.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Phenylalanine\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10]This essential amino acid is a precursor to serotonin and niacin, and is particularly found in eggs, fish and dairy products.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tryptophan\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10]This amino acid usually carries a negative charge at physiological pH. Its monosodium salt is used as a flavour enhancer.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Glutamic Acid
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Glutamate
\b0 \ulnone )\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 9. Bonuses on Realist artists, FTPE:\uc0\u8232 [10] 17\super th\nosupersub -century Dutch painter controversially may have used mechanical aids in the creation of his photorealistic portraits, such as \'91The Music Lesson\'92 and \'91Girl with a Pearl Earring\'92\uc0\u8232 Johannes \'91Jan\'92
\b \ul  Vermeer\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This American painter and photographer definitely used machines in the creation of his large-scale photorealistic portraits after being left paralysed in 1988. His painting, 
\i Mark,
\i0  which hangs in the MOMA depicts a bespectacled man in a plaid shirt.\uc0\u8232 Chuck
\b \ul  Close\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This Australian sculptor is known for his huge, hyperrealist works, such as the \'91Mask\'92 series of several-meter-tall faces, as well as producing props and animatronics for the film industry.\uc0\u8232 Ron
\b \ul  Mueck
\b0 \ulnone \
\
10. Bonuses on snake anatomy, because why not? For 10 points each: \uc0\u8232 [10] As snakes lack eyelids, this layer of transparent scales lies over the eyeballs to protect them from damage.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Brille\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] Some snakes can directly perceive infrared light thanks to these organs, most famously found on their namesake viper.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pit
\b0 \ulnone  organs
\b \ul \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] Aglyphous snakes lack these structures, used by venomous snakes to kill prey. In opisthoglyphous snakes, such as the boomslang, these are found at the back of the jaw.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Fangs
\b0 \ulnone \
\
11. How about some Ancient Greek poetry? FTPE: \uc0\u8232 [10] This poem mostly takes the form of a farmer\'92s almanac wherein the poet instructs his brother Perses on how and when to farm, but is probably best known for originating the myths of Prometheus and Pandora.\u8232 ANSWER: The
\b \ul  
\i Works and Days
\i0\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\f1\i\b \ul Erga kai H\uc0\u275 merai
\f0\i0\b0 \ulnone ) 
\b \ul \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This author of the 
\i Works and Days
\i0 , active in the seventh and eighth centuries BC, is thought to have invented the concept of the poet as an active participant within poetry.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER:
\b \ul  Hesiod
\f1\b0 \ulnone  (accept \uc0\u274 siodos, but tell the player to sto
\f0 p being cute)
\b \ul \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This earliest work of Hesiod, written around 700 BC, describes the creation of the world, as well as that of the gods that control it.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: The
\b \ul  
\i Theogony
\i0  \
\

\b0 \ulnone 12. For 10 points each, answer the following about operations of the RAF during the 1940s:\
[10] Codenamed Plainfare by the RAF and Vittles by the United States Air Force, this joint operation in 1948 tried broke a Soviet blockade and provided aid to an exclave of West Germany.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Berlin Airlift
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This May 1943 operation tried to use a special \'93bouncing bomb\'94 to flood the Ruhr Valley by attacking certain edifices at M\'f6hne and Edersee.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Dambusters
\b0 \ulnone  Raid [or Operation 
\b \ul Chastise
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Targets were picked for the September 1942 Mosquito raid on the Victoria Tarnasse building in Oslo and the controversial March 1945 raid on the Stellhus building in Copenhagen because those buildings performed this function.\
ANSWER: headquarters of the 
\b \ul Gestapo
\b0 \ulnone  [accept any answer having to do with the German 
\b \ul secret police
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
13. Have some bonuses on graphic novels. FTPE: \uc0\u8232 [10] This graphic novel series contains a two-volume explanation of the Kabbalah, and concerns Barbara Shelley, Grace Brannagh and Sophie Bangs, all of whom transform into the titular heroine, named for a character in Edmund Spenser\'92s 
\i The Faerie Queene
\i0 . \uc0\u8232 
\i\b \ul Promethea
\i0 \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This reclusive author and creator of 
\i Promethea
\i0  is probably better known for his controversial graphic novels 
\i From Hell 
\i0 and 
\i V for Vendetta
\i0 .\uc0\u8232 Alan
\b \ul  Moore\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This 12-part graphic novel series by Moore deals with an alternative history wherein superheroes helped win the Vietnam War, and follows the murder of one such vigilante, the Comedian. In 2009, it was turned into a film by Zack Snyder.\uc0\u8232 
\i\b \ul Watchmen
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i\b \cf0 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i0\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 14. Tokugawa Ieyasu won a decisive victory at this 1600 battle. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this battle, considered the beginning of the Tokugawa Shogunate.\
ANSWER: Battle of 
\b \ul Sekigahara
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Tokugawa Ieyasu had previously served under this leader, who defeated the forces of Imagawa Yoshimoto at the Battle of Okehazama in 1560.\
ANSWER: Oda 
\b \ul Nobunaga
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Oda Nobunaga committed suicide to avoid capture in this incident, named for the Kyoto temple where Akechi Mitsuhide ambushed him.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Honno-ji
\b0 \ulnone  Incident\
\
15. Answer some questions on ecology. For ten points each:\
[10] This term describes the role that an organism fills in an ecosystem\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Niche\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This principle states that two species competing for the same resources cannot coexist stably provided all other ecological factors are constant.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Competitive exclusion principle
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul Gause\'92s Law
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Gregory Gause gave experimental evidence for the competitive exclusion principle through his seminal experiment performed with two species of this protozoan genus\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Paramecium\

\b0 \ulnone \
\
16. Now for the bonus set on African music I\'92m sure you were waiting for. FTPE: \uc0\u8232 [10] This South African rap band are credited with the popularisation of the countercultural \'91zef\'92 movement with their albums 
\i $.O.$ 
\i0 and 
\i Ten$ion
\i0 .\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Die Antwoord\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10]
\b \ul  
\b0 \ulnone Another African group, Ladysmith Black Mambazo, notably collaborated on this African-inspired 1986 album on the tracks \'91Homeless\'92 and \'91Diamonds on the Soles of her Shoes'.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Graceland
\i0 \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10]
\b \ul  
\i\b0 \ulnone Graceland
\i0  was the seventh solo album from this American singer-songwriter, probably best known for his long-running partnership with Art Garfunkel.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: Paul
\b \ul  Simon
\b0\fs34 \ulnone \

\fs30 \
\
17. This novel features a hermit who steals a gold sink and is later revealed to be the angel Jesrad. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this novel tha is widely seen as an influence on modern detective fiction, due to the deductive skills of the eponymous Babylonian philosopher.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER:
\i  
\b \ul Zadig
\b0 \ulnone , ou la Destin\'e9e
\i0\b \ul \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] In this novel, the eponymous ing\'e9nu encounters such things as the 1755 Lisbon earthquake, the execution of an English admiral, and the legendary city of El Dorado, before eventually concluding that \'93we must tend our garden\'94.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Candide
\b0 \ulnone , ou l\'92Optimisme
\i0 \
[10] In this Voltaire short story, the title character is some 20,000 feet tall and arrives on Earth after being banished for heresy from his home planet.\
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul Microm\'e9gas
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
\
18. Leon Theremin invented this listening device, which was hidden side a carving of the Great Seal of the United States in the office of the U.S. ambassador to the Soviet Union. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this listening device with an unimaginative name.\
ANSWER: the 
\b \ul Thing
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The Thing is often identified as a precursor to this technology, in which \'93tags\'94 containing electronically stored data can be read by electromagnetic fields.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul RFID
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul radio frequency
\b0 \ulnone  identification]\
[10] This author of the Long Telegram and designer of the policy of containment was ambassador to the Soviet Union when the Thing was discovered in 1952.\
ANSWER: George F(rost) 
\b \ul Kennan
\b0\fs34 \ulnone \

\fs30 \
19. Now, have some bonuses on Ancient Greek philosophers. For 10 point each:\uc0\u8232 [10] This philosopher is probably best known as the teacher of Plato, as he produced almost no writing of his own before being sentenced to death for impiety and \'91corruption of the youth\'92.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Socrates\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This Ephesian philosopher is best known for his philosophy of \'91panta rhei\'92 or \'91everything flows\'92, often expressed by the aphorism \'91you cannot step in the same river twice\'92.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Heraclitus\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10]This philosopher and opponent of Heraclitus is best known for his poem 
\i On Nature
\i0 , in which he argues that everything is ultimately immutable and change is impossible.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Parmenides
\b0 \ulnone \
\
20. And now, bonuses on American science fiction. For 10 points each: \uc0\u8232 [10] This science fiction classic follows Gulliver Foyle\'92s quest for revenge in a futuristic world where the ability to teleport, or \'91jaunting\'92, is commonplace.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Tiger! Tiger!
\i0\b0 \ulnone  (accept \'91The Stars My Destination\'92, but tell players they should be supporting British publishing)
\b \ul \uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This American author of \'91Tiger! Tiger!\'92 and Grand Master of the Science Fiction Writers of America is probably best known for winning the first Hugo award with his novel 
\i The Demolished Man
\i0 . \uc0\u8232 ANSWER: Alfred
\b \ul  Bester\uc0\u8232 
\b0 \ulnone [10] This author of over 500 books and approximately 90,000 published letters is probably best known for his science fiction work, such as the short stories in which he set out his Three Laws of Robotics. \uc0\u8232 ANSWER: Isaac
\b \ul  Asimov
\b0 \ulnone  (accept Isaak Ozimov)\
\
\
\

\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone \
}