{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;\red34\green34\blue34;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10280\viewh14520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200

\b0 \cf0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Round 10\
Editors\'92 Packet #2\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Tossups\ulnone \
\
1. The intensities of tranisitions due to this effect can be enhanced by the use of two incident laser beams so that species can be studied even in the presence of incoherent background radiation, in a process known as CARS. For molecules with a centre of inversion, vibrational modes which are IR-active cannot also be active with regard to this effect. To display this effect, a molecule must have anisotropic polarisability. For 10 points, name this type of inelastic scattering which gives rise to Stokes and Anti-Stokes lines and is named for an Indian physicist. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Raman
\b0 \ulnone  Effect\
\
2. Jack Zipes has tried to explain the origin of these things, which Bengt Holbek interpreted by plotting five distinct \'93moves\'94 on a cube. They can be classified by the Aarne-Thompson system, and a Freudian interpretation of them was given in 
\i The Uses of Enchantment
\i0  by Bruno Bettelheim. The Third Reich decreed that a book of them by two philologists from Gottingen, who had written them in standard German to promote nationalism, should be in every home. For 10 points, name this type of story collected by the Brothers Grimm.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul fairy tale
\b0 \ulnone s [accept 
\b \ul folk tale
\b0 \ulnone s or 
\b \ul folklore
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
3. In this show, an annual wrestling match between father and son is called the \'93Feats of Strength.\'94 A caped lawyer in this program is employed by Frank and is portrayed by one of the creators. In the final episode, the main characters of this show are jailed for violating the Good Samaritans law. The postal service worker Newman is friends with Kramer but enemies with Jerry. For 10 points, name show about nothing, which was co-created by Larry David and the show\'92s title character.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Seinfeld\
\

\b0 \ulnone 4. The narrator of one of this man\'92s poems rants \'93In three sips the Arian frustrate; / While he drains his at one gulp.\'94 Another of his poems concludes with the title figure blowing the \'93slug-horn\'94 upon reaching the title location. This author of \'93Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister\'94 and \'93Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came\'94 wrote a poem in which a painting of a person with \'93a heart\'85too soon made glad\'94 is discussed. For 10 points, identify this poet of \'93My Last Duchess\'94\
ANSWER: Robert 
\b \ul Browning\
\

\b0 \ulnone 5. One of this composer-cum-conductor's pupils released an album in cooperation with Jorge Luis Borges, 
\i El Tango
\i0 , and also composed the work 
\i Libertango. 
\i0 A second pupil is known for his opera 
\i Appomattox. 
\i0 Besides Astor Piazzola and Phillip Glass, this Parisian taught the composer of
\i  
\i0 the solo piano work 
\i The Cat and the Mouse
\i0 , who became more famous for works such as 
\i Appalachian Spring 
\i0 and 
\i Rodeo. 
\i0 This female French musician who taught the conductor John Eliot Gardiner and the composer Aaron Copland, is for ten points, which central figure of the Parisian music scene for much of the twentieth century?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nadia Boulanger
\b0 \ulnone \

\b \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 6. A member of this religious group was charged with blasphemy after riding a donkey into Bristol as part of a re-enactment of Christ\'92s entry into Jerusalem. The Valiant Sixty was a group of members of this sect who preached primarily in northern England and counted James Nayler among their number. A doctrine of the liberal branch of this sect is that of inner light. The practice of unprogrammed, silent worship is derived from the practices of this sects founder, George Fox. For 10 points, identify this Protestant sect that advocates pacifism and plain dress.\
ANSWER: The Religious 
\b \ul Society of Friends
\b0 \ulnone  (or 
\b \ul Quakers
\b0 \ulnone )
\b \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 \

\b0 \ulnone 7. A novel by this author concerns the search for a happy-go-lucky soldier gone AWOL. To illustrate the impossibility of the title act, this author regales a story from Mitchell Sanders about strange music he overhead while stationed at a listening post. Those works are 
\i Going After Cacciatio
\i0  and \'93How to Tell a True War Story. The title story of this man\'92s best-known collection
\i  
\i0 enumerates the title objects, such as rations and guilt. For 10 points, name this Vietnam vet and author of the collection 
\i The Things they Carried\

\i0 ANSWER: Tim 
\b \ul O\'92Brien
\b0 \ulnone \
\
8. By a referendum that may have been rigged, the residents of Sopron decided in 1921 not to join this country, which was later led by a priest named Ignaz Seipel. A plebiscite in 1920 allowed this country to retain its province of Carinthia; that vote had been required by the Treaty of Saint Germain. Its parliament was disbanded in 1933 by Engelbert Dollfuss, who was assassinated by Nazi agents in 1934 a few months after clashes fighting broke out in Linz. For 10 points, name this country that was annexed to Germany via the Anschluss.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Austria
\b0 \ulnone \
\
9. Vincent Boutin\'92s secret reconnaissance mapped invasion routes in this country, where the Cr\'e9mieux Decree later gave citizenship to Jews. Resistance in this country was fiercest in the Kabylie region, which had relatively few settlers known as 
\i colon
\i0 s. This country was blockaded after its Dey hit Pierre Deval with a peacock-feather fly whisk, but it was not invaded until the beginnings of the July Revolution threatened Charles X in 1830. For 10 points, name this country where the French then annexed such cities as Constantine and Oran.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Algeria\
\

\b0 \ulnone 10. Robert Bowes and Ralph Elleskar petitioned the king on behalf of the rebels in this conflict, after which the rebels agreed to throw aside banners bearing the Five Wounds of Christ. It resulted in the replacement of the Statute of Uses with the Statute of Wills, allowing wills to supersede primogeniture, but Bigod\'92s Rebellion led to the execution of Thomas Darcy and Robert Aske despite the Earl of Northumberland\'92s promise of a pardon. For 10 points, name this uprising in Yorkshire in 1536 that challenged Thomas Cromwell and King Henry VIII.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pilgrimage of Grace
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt begrudgingly on \'93Lincoln Rising\'94 even though that related event is not what is being described in this tossup]
\b \ul \
\

\b0 \ulnone 11. Melino\'eb is one of the inhabitants of this area, and one of the rivers in this area is the Lethe. Aeacus ruled over one part of this area and another part of this area is known for its large concentrations of Asphodel flowers, while a journey to this are is called a 
\i nekuia
\i0 . The Erinyes live in this area, Odysseus meets his former comrade Elpenor here and the heroes in this area dwell in the Elysian Fields. For 10 points, name this area, which is ruled by an eponymous deity and is where Orpheus visits to retrieve Eurydice.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Hades 
\b0 \ulnone [also accept: 
\b \ul Erebus
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Tartarus
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Orcus
\b0 \ulnone  or any acceptable answer that reference the 
\b \ul Greek
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Roman Underworld
\b0 \ulnone ]
\b \ul \
\

\b0 \ulnone 12. When in solutions of these substances, colloid particles can be pushed together by an osmotic imbalance known as the depletion interaction, and in low concentrations these substances can cause bridging flocculation. When in a theta solvent, these substances follow a random flight model. More generally, their interactions in solution are modeled by Flory-Huggins theory. These substances can be synthesized with the help of Ziegler-Natta catalysts. For 10 points, name these large molecules such as Kevlar and nylon which are made up of many repeating monomers. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Polymer
\b0 \ulnone s
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone \
13. In this novel, the narrator witnesses a boy stealing some scissors, but does not reprimand him. The son of Bocage figures out a way to make money by poaching at the estate, La Moriniere. When delivering a lecture in this novel on how culture kills life, the narrator of this finds that no one but the scandalized M\'e9nalque understands him. This novel\'92s protagonist\'92s wife, after travelling around Europe and Biskra, dies of tuberculosis. For 10 points, name this controversial Andr\'e9 Gide novella.\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Immoralist\

\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 14. Two large crows descend upon the title animal, which is running through the snow leaving a trail, in this artist\'92s 
\i Fox Hunt. 
\i0 A man in a straw field carrying a scythe in his right arm gazes into the distance in his 
\i Song of the Lark
\i0 . A boy sits with the rudder controls of a ship called the 
\i Gloucester
\i0  in on of his paintings; while in another work a lone black man reclines in a boat being swarmed by sharks. For 10 points, name this American painter of The Gulf Stream and Breezing Up.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\qj
\cf0 ANSWER: Winslow 
\b \ul Homer
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 \
15. This country\'92s Madhyapara Hard Rock Mine was taken over in 2013 by a North Korean company. In November 2013, a special tribunal here convicted the chief of the Jamaat-e-Islami of war crimes committed in 1971, and in that same month 152 people here were sentenced to death for a 2009 mutiny attempt. The Jatiya Party did not follow through on its plans to boycott this country\'92s 2014 election with other opponents of Sheikh Hasina\'92s Awami League. For 10 points, name this country where in April 2013 a garment factory collapsed in Dhaka.\
ANSWER: (People\'92s Republic of) 
\b \ul Bangladesh
\b0 \ulnone \
\
16. One couple with this surname was estranged for 36 years before Queen Victoria and William Gladstone got them to reconcile. Another man with this surname joined Richard of Conisburgh and Henry Scrope in the Southampton Plot against Henry V, and another declared \'93the lamps are going out all over Europe\'94 as Foreign Secretary in 1914. It was the surname of the man who was prime minister when the Reform Act of 1832 was passed. For 10 points, give this surname shared by the woman who succeeded Edward VI as queen for nine days.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Grey
\b0 \ulnone  [accept George and Eliza 
\b \ul Grey
\b0 \ulnone , Thomas 
\b \ul Grey
\b0 \ulnone , Edward 
\b \ul Grey
\b0 \ulnone , Earl Charles 
\b \ul Grey
\b0 \ulnone , or Lady Jane 
\b \ul Grey
\b0 \ulnone ]
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone \
17. In January 2014 the grand mufti of this country resigned after his sex tape was leaked to the public. Riots in the southern part of this country in 2010, many of which took place in Jalal-Abad, forced the ouster of Kurmanbek Bakiyev as its president. The U.S. Air Force reached a deal in 2009 to maintain its base at Manas in this country. Much of this country\'92s population lives in the west in the Ferghana Valley, where its city of Osh is located. The Tian Shan separate China from, for 10 points, what Central Asian country whose capital is Bishkek?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Kyrgyzstan
\b0 \ulnone \
\
18. The Wuchiapingian stage and Changhsingian stage form the Longpingian system, the last epoch of this period. Metabolically active reptiles called therapsids flourished during this period, and ammonids are widespread in this period\'92s fossil record. Conifers and other gymnosperms evolved during this period, replacing the swamp forests of the carboniferous period. For 10 points, name this geological period which immediately preceded the Triassic and ended with natural history\'92s largest extinction event. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Permian
\b0 \ulnone  Period\
\
19. One character created by this author buys a green hat and green suit and refers to black people as 
\i \'91hubshi.
\i0 \'92 The prologue from that collection features a Lebanese furniture-maker who has Hans threaten a tramp aboard a cruise ship. \'93One out of Many\'94 is from a collection whose title story begins with a Zulu boy rejecting the advances of Bobby, who later drives with Linda through the title location. For 10 points, identify this sexist Trinidadian author of 
\i In a Free State 
\i0 and 
\i A House for Mr. Biswas
\i0 .\
ANSWER: \cf3 Vidiadhar Surajprasad 
\b \ul Naipaul
\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6\sl200
\cf0 20. The Trofile assay can be used to determine whether the tropism of this entity is X4, R5 or X4R5. The virulence factor encoded by this pathogen\'92s vpu gene downregulates tetherin in infected cells. The surface glycoproteins of this pathogen, gp120 and gp41, are encoded by its env gene. Homozygosity for the delta-CCR5 mutation protects against infection by most forms of this pathogen and azidothymidine can be used to reduce its transmission. For ten points, name this retrovirus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Human Immunodeficiency Virus
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul HIV
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6\sl200
\cf0 \ul Bonuses\ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 1. In 2013, Barbara Sukowa starred as this intellectual in a controversial film by Margarethe von Trotta.  For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this thinker, whose work as a correspondent for the 
\i New Yorker
\i0  in Israel in 1961 is the principal focuses of the film.\
ANSWER: Hannah 
\b \ul Arendt
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Hannah Arendt wrote for the 
\i New Yorker
\i0  when she attended the trial of this captured Nazi, whose apparent lack of anti-Semitic beliefs led her to formulate the idea of \'93the banality of evil.\'94\
ANSWER: Adolf 
\b \ul Eichmann
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\i\b \ul Eichmann in Jerusalem
\i0\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Sukowa had previously worked with von Trotta in 1986, when she won the Best Actress award in Cannes for playing this woman, who co-founded the Spartacus League with Clara Zetkin and Karl Liebknecht in 1915.\
ANSWER: Rosa 
\b \ul Luxemburg\
\

\b0 \ulnone 2. The last movement of this suite quotes the opening of 
\i Tristan and Isolde 
\i0 in a passage marked \'93
\i avec une grande \'e9motion\'94.
\i0  FTPE:\
[10] Name this work, other movements of which include 
\i The Snow is Dancing 
\i0 and 
\i The Little Shepherd
\i0 .\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Children's Corner
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This French composer of 
\i La Mer
\i0  and 
\i Pr\'e9lude \'e0 l'apr\'e8s-midi d'un faune 
\i0 wrote 
\i Children's Corner
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Claude 
\b \ul Debussy
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Debussy also composed this last movement of 
\i Suite Bergamesque
\i0  for piano. The movement starts with a Db major chord, but the root of the chord only appears in the second bar.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Clair de lune
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6\sl200
\cf0 3. For ten points each, answer these questions on biological models:\
[10] Singer and Nicholson developed this model for the structure of the cell membrane in which proteins diffuse freely within a phospholipid bilayer.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Fluid Mosaic
\b0 \ulnone  Model
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone [10] This doubly-eponymous principle states that allele and genotype frequencies will remain constant in a population provided certain conditions such as absence of genetic drift, mutations and selection.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Hardy-Weinberg
\b0 \ulnone  Principle\
[10] This doubly-eponymous pair of first order differential equations is used in the modelling of predator and prey populations. This model is dependent on prey density and assumes a linear relationship between prey density and prey consumption.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Lotka-Volterra
\b0 \ulnone  Model\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 4. In 2011, the OPERA experiment claimed to have observed neutrinos performing this action, though these measurements were later revealed to be due to an improperly attached cable and a clock running too quickly. For 10 points each: \
[10] Name this action which violates special relativity. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Exceeding the Speed of Light
\b0 \ulnone  in a vacuum, (accept 
\b \ul Going faster than light
\b0 \ulnone  or any reasonable equivalent)\
[10] If they existed, these hypothetical particles would have imaginary mass and would always travel faster than the speed of light. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tachyons
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] The idea of tachyons was first proposed by this Indian physicist, who also names a way of representing the phase space distribution with Roy Glauber.\
ANSWER: Ennackal Chandy George 
\b \ul Sudarshan\
\

\b0 \ulnone 5. In this novel a man called Johnny Walker cuts out the hearts of cats. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this novel in which the title character runs away from home before befriending the transexual librarian Oshima.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Kafka on the Shore
\i0\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] 
\i Kafka on the Shore
\i0  is by this Japanese author of 
\i Norwegian Wood 
\i0 and 
\i What I Talk About When I Talk About Running\

\i0 ANSWER: Haruki 
\b \ul Murakami\

\b0 \ulnone [10] In 
\i Kafka on the Shore,
\i0  Kafka reads 
\i The Miner
\i0 , a work by this early 20\super th\nosupersub  century Japanese author. He is better known for his novel 
\i Kokoro
\i0  and one told from the perspective of a feline, 
\i I Am A Cat
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Natsume 
\b \ul Soseki\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 6. The first of these lived for roughly 600,000 quintillion years and is called Rishabha. For 10 points:\
[10] Name these 24 religious figures who aid in the achievement of enlightenment. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tirthankara\

\b0 \ulnone [10] The Tirthankara are central to this Indian religion that is split into the Digambara and Svetambara sects.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Jainism\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This is the last Tirthankara. He lived during the 6\super th\nosupersub  century BCE and is the founder of the contemporary cycle of Jainism. According to some traditions he is married to Yashoda, with whom he had a daughter\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mahavira\
\

\b0 \ulnone 7. He founded the Neo-impressionist movement, though he preferred to call it chromoluminarism. For 10 points each:\
[10] This man depicted a woman with a monkey on a leash in his painting 
\i A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Georges-Pierre 
\b \ul Seurat\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This other Seurat painting includes a boy in a red hat holding his hands to his mouth. On the left is a man lying in front of a dog, and the central figure sits beside a straw hat and dangles his legs in the water.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Bathers at Asni\'e8res
\i0\b0 \ulnone  (or 
\i\b \ul Une Baignade, Asni\'e8res
\i0\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] This other Neo-impressionist depicted the art critic F\'e9lix F\'e9n\'e9on holding a top hat in his left hand and a flower in his right hand while standing in front of a swirling background of colours.\
ANSWER: Paul Victor Jules 
\b \ul Signac\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
8. For 10 points each, answer the following about the Auld Alliance.\
[10] Scotland traditionally allied with this country, a rival of England, via the Auld Alliance.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul France
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The original agreement that became the Auld Alliance was concluded in 1295 between Philip IV of France and this Scottish king, a rival of Robert the Bruce in the Great Cause, who reigned only briefly before Edward I had him imprisoned in the Tower of London.\
ANSWER: John 
\b \ul Balliol
\b0 \ulnone  or Johan de 
\b \ul Bailliol
\b0 \ulnone  or Jhon 
\b \ul Ballioun
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul Toom Tabard
\b0 \ulnone ; prompt on \'93John\'94]\
[10] The Auld Alliance got Scotland involved in this 1508-1516 conflict, which began when France and the Papal States joined the namesake alliance against Venice.\
ANSWER: War of the 
\b \ul League of Cambrai
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on the \'93Italian Wars\'94 or the \'93War of the Holy League\'94]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200\qj
\cf0 9. Some questions on Aztec religion, for 10 points each:\
[10] This primary war god of the Aztecs shares the Templo Mayor with Tlaloc, and one creation myth holds that he was born after feathers impregnated Coatlicue\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Huitzilopochotli\

\b0 \ulnone [10] The name of this other Aztec god, a brother of Huitzilopochtli, means feathered serpent.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Querzalcoatl\

\b0 \ulnone [10] The Templo Mayor was situated in this capitol of the Aztecs.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tenochtitlan\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl200
\cf0 \

\b0 \ulnone 10. For 10 points each, name some pieces of apparatus found in a chemistry lab: \
[10] This piece of apparatus was developed by its namesake while he was working with Gustav Kirchhoff on the the emission spectra of heated elements. It usually burns natural gas to produce a single flame. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Bunsen
\b0 \ulnone  burner \
[10] These devices are used in titrations, and consist of a graduated glass cylinder with a tap at the bottom. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Burette
\b0 \ulnone s \
[10] These pieces of apparatus, also known as vacuum gas manifolds, consist of two manifolds, one of which is connected to a vacuum pump and the other to a source of inert gas. They are commonly used to prepare air-sensitive compounds.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Schlenk
\b0 \ulnone  Lines \
\
11. For 10 points each, name some things about rowing: \
[10] These people sit facing the back of the boat and control the steering. They are usually small, and are sometimes thrown in the river after winning a race.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cox
\b0 \ulnone swains \
[10] This part of a rowing shell is the part between the crew seating area and the bow or stern, and is used to describe a close win of just over a metre.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Canvas
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] In the standard alphanumeric system of rowing classifications, this letter is used to signify whether or not an event is for scullers. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul X
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
12. This poet\'92s best-known poem describes \'93a host, of golden daffodils\'94 which are \'93fluttering and dancing in the breeze.\'94 For 10 points each:\
[10] \'93I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud\'94 is a work of this Romantic poet who wrote \'93Tintern Abbey\'94 and collaborated with Coleridge on 
\i Lyrical Ballads
\i0 .\
ANSWER: William 
\b \ul Wordsworth\

\b0 \ulnone  [10] In this Wordsworth poem the narrator questions \'93a simple child\'94 on the whereabouts and number of her siblings. The speaker and the girl disagree on how to count them.\
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul We Are Seven
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
[10] This critic, a contemporary of Wordsworth, described meeting Coleridge and Wordsworth in his essay \'93First acquaintance with the poets.\'94 Other essays, such as \'93On people with one idea,\'94 were collected in his book 
\i Table Talk
\i0\b .\

\b0 ANSWER: William 
\b \ul Hazlitt
\b0 \ulnone \
\
13. Grigori Perelman presented the first proof of this theorem in 2003, but turned down a million-dollar prize offered by the Clay Mathematics Institute. For 10 points each: \
[10] Name this first Millennium Prize Problem to be solved, which was first stated by a French Mathematician. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Poincar\'e9
\b0 \ulnone  Conjecture \
[10] The Poincar\'e9 Conjecture states that every simply connected, closed 3-manifold is homeomorphic to this object, the set of points equidistant from a fixed central point in 4-dimensional Euclidean Space.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul 3-sphere
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] One Millennium Prize Problem which remains unsolved is this problem in computer science, which asks whether any problem whose solution can be quickly verified by a computer can also be quickly solved by a computer. \
ANSWER: Does 
\b \ul P=NP
\b0 \ulnone ? (Accept 
\b \ul P versus NP
\b0 \ulnone )\
\
14. One collection of essays by this man was published posthumously as 
\i Both Flesh and Not
\i0  after his 2008 suicide. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this author whose other essay collections include 
\i Consider the Lobster
\i0  and 
\i A Supposedly Fun Thing I\'92ll Never Do Again
\i0 .\
ANSWER: David Foster 
\b \ul Wallace
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul DFW
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] David Foster Wallace wrote about this sport in his novel 
\i Infinite Jest
\i0  and in his essay \'93Roger Federer as Religious Experience.\'94\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul tennis
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In \'93A Supposedly Fun Thing I\'92ll Never Do Again,\'94 this is the supposedly fun thing. It lasts for eight days and seven nights.\
ANSWER: going on a Caribbean 
\b \ul cruise
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
15. This Communist leader rose to power as the leader of the Partisans during World War II. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this leader of postwar Yugoslavia who broke away from the Soviet bloc and championed the Non-Aligned Movement.\
ANSWER: Josip 
\b \ul Broz
\b0 \ulnone  
\b \ul Tito
\b0 \ulnone  [accept either underlined portion]\
[10] As leader of the Partisans, Tito was a rival of this other anti-Axis resistance movement, which promoted Serbian nationalism.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Chetnik
\b0 \ulnone s\
[10] The Partisans\'92 first experience in governing came in 1941, when they set up a small state in a liberated area of western Serbia on the Detinja River with this city as its capital and namesake.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Uzice
\b0 \ulnone  [accept Republic of 
\b \ul Uzice
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
16. The Flynn effect says that the average value of this measurement has been increasing by roughly three points per decade. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this measurement, which is today most commonly measured on a scale designed by David Wechsler.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul IQ
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul intelligence quotient
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on \'93intelligence\'94]\
[10] One frequently used IQ test in the past was a redesign of Alfred Binet\'92s test published by Lewis Terman at this American university. This university was also the site of Philip Zimbardo\'92s prison experiment.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Stanford
\b0 \ulnone  University [accept 
\b \ul Stanford-Binet
\b0 \ulnone  intelligence scales or 
\b \ul Stanford Prison Experiment
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] This controversial 1994 book by Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray asserted that IQ was an important predictor of economic and social class status and posited the development of a \'93cognitive elite.\'94\
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Bell Curve
\b0 \ulnone : Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life
\i0 \
\
17. At a July 2013 meeting in Bermerhaven, Germany, a no vote from Russia thwarted plans to turn this sea into a marine protected area. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this sea that separates Marie Byrd Land from Victoria Land.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ross
\b0 \ulnone  Sea\
[10] Among the wildlife that makes its home in and around the Ross Sea is the Ad\'e9lie species of this animal.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul penguin
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The entire Ross Sea falls into the suspended land claim of this country, which has tried to expand its fishing in the Ross Sea in recent years.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul New Zealand
\b0 \ulnone \
\
18. Missouri Congressman Leonidas Dyer introduced legislation to punish this action in 1918, but the bill was defeated throughout the 1920s. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this form of extra-legal punishment that befell 14-year-old Emmett Till and which was often carried out in the American South by the Ku Klux Klan.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul lynch
\b0 \ulnone ing\
[10] This African-American activist challenged lynching in such pamphlets as 
\i Southern Horrors
\i0  and 
\i The Red Record
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Ida B(ell) 
\b \ul Wells
\b0 \ulnone (-Barnett)\
[10] In 1939, Billie Holliday recorded a musical version of this influential anti-lynching poem by Abel Meeropol.\
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul Strange Fruit
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
\
19. Of the eight birds famous birds carved out of soapstone which found in this site, five were quickly sold to Cecil Rhodes. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this archeological site that gave its name to a country in Africa.\
ANSWER: Great 
\b \ul Zimbabwe
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Great Zimbabwe took its name from the language of this ethnic group, whose ancestors are believed to have constructed the ruined city.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Shona
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Great Zimbabwe was a political symbol of the black activists opposed to the rule of this longtime white Rhodesian prime minister, who fought the Bush War and signed the Lancaster House Agreement with Robert Mugabe.\
ANSWER: Ian (Douglas) 
\b \ul Smith
\b0 \ulnone \
\
20. The protagonist of this novel returns to Istanbul from political exile in Frankfurt to attend the funeral of his mother. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this novel in which Kadife and her lover Blue put on a performance of Kyd's 
\i The Spanish Tragedy.\

\i0 ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Snow
\i0\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\i\b \ul Kar
\i0\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] 
\i Snow 
\i0 is a novel by this Turkish Nobel laureate and author of 
\i The Museum of Innocence
\i0  and 
\i The White Castle
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Orhan 
\b \ul Pamuk
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This other Pamuk novel follows various miniaturists in the Ottoman Empire. Each chapter has a different narrator, including some very odd ones such as a coin and the corpse of a murdered person.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul My Name is Red
\i0\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\i\b \ul Benim Ad\uc0\u305 m K\u305 rm\u305 z\u305 
\i0\b0 \ulnone )\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-6\sl200
\cf0 \
}