{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10200\viewh14520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200\qj

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\

\b0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Round 9\
Editors\'92 Packet #1\
\
\ul \ulc0 Tossups\
\ulnone \
1. This deity is associated with a black boar that eats the moon and the worship of this deity was based around the city of Nubt. This deity was originally one of those that defended the barge of Ra from the serpent Apep and is sometimes depicted in art as a mythicial composite creature.  In his role as god of storms, this deity was associated with the Canaanite deity Baal, and this deity killed his brother by sealing him in a coffin. For 10 points, name this husband of Nepthys and usurper of Osiris, the Egyptian god of violence and the desert.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Set
\b0 \ulnone h [also accept: 
\b \ul Setesh
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Setekh
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
2. The second movement of the third part of this work features a long flute solo beginning with a slightly altered ascending A major scale which then lands on a high G#. The movement 
\i Lever du jour
\i0 , which opens both the third part of this work as well as the popular second orchestral suite based on this ballet, uses woodwind interjections to depict birdsong. In this ballet, the tale of Pan and Syrinx is mimicked by the two title characters, one of whom has been saved by the god Pan. For ten points, name this ballet in which a goatherd and a shepherdess eventually fall in love, a work by Maurice Ravel.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Daphnis et Chlo\'e9
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\

\i 3. The Death of Artemio Cruz
\i0  was dedicated to this writer, who interviewed Fidel Castro in 1960 for 
\i Listen, Yankee
\i0 . This author of 
\i The New Men of Power
\i0  argued in another work that \'93cheerful robots\'94 were being sapped of individualism by bureaucratic employment. His best-known work describes how the interconnectedness of the top people in the military, political, and economic spheres create an ongoing war economy. For 10 points, name this American sociologist who wrote 
\i White Collar
\i0 , 
\i The Sociological Imagination
\i0 , and 
\i The Power Elite
\i0 .\
ANSWER: C(harles) Wright 
\b \ul Mills
\b0 \ulnone \
\
4. Edward Harley and John Blunt came up with the idea for this company, which was later promoted by James Craggs the Elder. It was supposed to rely on the 
\i nav\'edo de permiso
\i0 , which allowed it to send one trade ship a year to certain cities. It also took advantage of the Asiento, as granted by the Treaty of Utrecht after the War of the Spanish Succession, and swapped bonds for national debt. Robert Walpole became Prime Minister to try to solve, for 10 points, the crisis associated with what joint-stock company trading in South America? \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul South Sea
\b0 \ulnone  Company [accept 
\b \ul South Sea
\b0 \ulnone  Bubble]\
\
5. Relaxation in spin glasses has been shown to be consistent with the Tsallis type of this quantity. This quantity is wrongly predicted to go to minus infinity at absolute zero by the Sackur-Tetrode equation. The partial derivative of the Helmholtz Energy with respect to temperature is minus one times this quantity. On a phase diagram, the gradient of a phase boundary is equal to the ratio of the molar changes in this quantity and volume. For 10 points, name this quantity which always increases according to the second law of thermodynamics, a measure of disorder in a system. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Entropy
\b0 \ulnone \
\
6. A character in one of this author\'92s novels realizes after staring at a rock that she must return to England forthwith. In another novel by this author a philosopher laments that, though he has attained Q, he will never be able to reach R. This author wrote a biography of the art critic Roger Fry. This author of 
\i Orlando
\i0  was a prominent member of the Bloomsbury Group. For 10 points, name this author of 
\i To the Lighthouse 
\i0 and 
\i Mrs. Dalloway
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Virginia 
\b \ul Woolf\
\

\b0 \ulnone 7. In the first Saudi feature film, Wadjda learns to recite the Qur\'92an so she can buy this thing, which Charlotte Smith called \'93the devil\'92s advance agent\'94 and which Susan B. Anthony said \'93has done more to emancipate women than anything else in the world.\'94 When Annie Londonderry went around the world with one, she wore the pants named after Amelia Bloomer. Gloria Steinem compared women without men to fish without these things. For 10 points, name this mode of transportation, one early example of which was the Penny-farthing.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul bicycle
\b0 \ulnone s [accept 
\b \ul bike
\b0 \ulnone s]\
\
8. In one story by this author a countess claims that her husband did not father one of her seven children so that she can avoid having so many babies. In another story by this author of \'93Useless Beauty,\'94 the wife of a clerk wishes misplaces the title object, which she believes to be worth a small fortune, only to discover that it was just a cheap imitation. For 10 points, name this author of \'93The Necklace\'94 and \'93Boule de Suif\'94.\
ANSWER: Guy de 
\b \ul Maupassant\

\b0 \ulnone \
9. The \'93bio-pirate\'94 Henry Wickham smuggled seeds of this crop from Santar\'e9m to Kew Gardens in 1876. The Treaty of Petr\'f3polis ended a boundary dispute over the province of Acre, considered prime land for growing this crop, which was transported by the Madeira-Mamor\'e9 railway. This crop was responsible for the turn-of-the-century boom in Manaus. Native workers tapped trees in the rainforest to gather, for 10 points, what crop native to Brazil, which became commercially valuable when Charles Goodyear invented vulcanization?\
ANSWER: (natural) 
\b \ul rubber
\b0 \ulnone  [accept natural 
\b \ul latex
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\i\b \ul Hevea
\b0 \ulnone  brasiliensis
\i0 ]\
\
10. Along the southern coast of this state is a region of scrublands known as the Esperance Plains. This state, which is the world\'92s second-largest country subdivision after Russia\'92s Sakha Republic, is home to the protected dugong habitats of Shark Bay and the gold rush town of Kalgoorlie. Its first substantial settlements were located on the Swan River, which flows into the Indian Ocean. The Gibson Desert and most of the Great Sandy Desert are part of, for 10 points, what largest Australian state by area that is home to the city of Perth?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Western Australia
\b0 \ulnone \
\
11. A mixture of this chemical and acetone is the standard example of a strong negative deviation from Raoult\'92s Law. Adding a strong base and this compound to pyrrole is a method for producing m-chloropyridine. In the presence of oxygen, this compound is slowly converted to phosgene, and in base it can \uc0\u945 -eliminate to give dichlorocarbene. Its proton NMR contains a sharp peak at 7.27ppm and its deuterated analogue is a common solvent for NMR. For 10 points, name this molecule with formula
\b  
\b0 CHCl\sub 3\nosupersub  which is stereotypically used to knock people out. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Chloroform
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul CHCl\sub 3
\b0 \nosupersub \ulnone  before mention)\
\
12. This philosopher used the example of opposite magnetic poles attracting each other to explain the distinction between the judgement stroke and content stroke in his 
\i Concept-Script
\i0 . The fact that a=b can convey new information while a=a cannot is the basis for this thinker\'92s distinction between sense and reference. J.L. Austin translated his 
\i Grundlagen
\i0 . His philosophical output slowed after he received a letter from Russell showing that the logical system this thinker proposed was inconsistent. For 10 points, identify this German logician and philosopher.\
ANSWER: Friedrich Ludwig Gottlob 
\b \ul Frege\

\b0 \ulnone \
13. The interleukin protein of this number induces immunoglobulin E class switching in B cells. Goodpasture\'92s syndrome is an autoimmune disease where the collagen type of this number acts as an antigen. Picornaviruses are classified as being this number in the Baltimore classification. This type of hypersensitivity is known as the delayed type and the gene for huntingtin is found on the chromosome of this number. For ten points give the number of oxygen binding sites on a molecule of haemoglobin or the number of bases in DNA.\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Four
\b0 \ulnone \
\
14. In a novel by this man the protagonist makes a fool of himself by registering a very weak punch on a boxing game in the arcade, only to beat up the very thugs who upstaged him on that game. That character collects maps of Africa in the hopes of one day travelling there. A recurring motif in works of this author is a child born with brain damage. For 10 points, name this Japanese Nobel laureate, the author of 
\i A Personal Matter
\i0  and 
\i Silent Cry.
\i0 \
ANSWER: Kenzaburo 
\b \ul Oe
\b0 \ulnone  (accept in either order\
\
15. In the top right of this painting man with a yellow cloth covering his lap rests his left hand on an L-shaped rod. Opposite that figure appears a man playing a harp, immediately above whom appears a yellow robed St. Peter dangling keys. A row of black robed men with white ruffs spans the space behind the central figure who is clothed in an ornate suit of armor. For 10 points, name this El Greco painting of a nobleman being inhumed. \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Burial of the Count of Orgaz
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
16.  One emperor with this name was blinded by supporters of his mother, Irene, after he married his mistress in the Moechian Controversy. Another emperor with this name convened the Council of Hieria to ratify the iconoclast policies implemented by his father. Another emperor with this name asked Pope Nicholas V to implement the Union of Florence, but he was slain in battle after Janissaries breached the Theodosian Walls. For 10 points, give this regnal name of eleven Byzantine emperors, the last of whom died in battle against Mehmet II in 1453.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Constantine
\b0 \ulnone  [in particular, accept 
\b \ul Constantine VI
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Constantine V
\b0 \ulnone , or 
\b \ul Constantine XI
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
17. It was said of this person that \'93he was behaving amazingly well\'94 but without happiness. He announced on his blog, \'93One hour behind,\'94 that his favourite author is Haruki Murakami. He performed an astonishing nutmeg on Alvaro Arbeloa during a national team training session. His corner resulted in Drogba\'92s equalising headed goal in the 2012 Champion\'92s League final.  For 10 points, name this bearded attacking midfield for whom Man United broke their record transfer fee.\
ANSWER: Juan Manual 
\b \ul Mata
\b0 \ulnone  Garc\'eda\

\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 18.
\b \ul  
\b0 \ulnone Pentecostal pioneer Charles Fox Parham founded his Bethel Healing Home in this state, in which Joseph McCoy built stockyards in railheads at the end of the Chisholm Trail. This was the home state of William Allen White, whose 
\i Emporia Gazette
\i0  published an attack on William Jennings Bryan asking \'93What\'92s the Matter\'94 with this state. Earlier, this state had seen the Pottawatomie Massacre perpetrated by John Brown in Lawrence. For 10 points, name this state where trouble was caused by \'93Border Ruffians\'94 from Missouri.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Kansas
\b0 \ulnone \
\
19. The Slater variety of this entity describes a system of fermions which is antisymmetric under they exchange of identical fermions. A value of zero for the Wronskian type of this entity implies linear dependence for a set of analytic functions, and the Jacobian variety is used while changing variables to perform multiple integration over a given domain. Sarrus\'92 scheme is a method for computing these values, which are zero for singular matrices. For 10 points, name this mathematical object, which, for a 2x2 matrix, is equal to ad-bc. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Determinant\
\

\b0 \ulnone 20. In one work by this playwright a character is thoroughly disappointed that \'93the Villa\'94 are playing away, as this means he cannot go watch them play. In another work of this man the central character, who pretends to be a concert pianist, receives a toy drum as a present. Another of his works is perhaps best known for taking place in reverse chronological author, and is titled 
\i The Betrayal
\i0 . For 10 points, name this author of 
\i The Dumb Waiter
\i0  and 
\i The Birthday Party
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Harold 
\b \ul Pinter\

\b0 \ulnone \
\ul Bonuses\ulnone \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200
\cf0 1. H. L. Mencken once described it as \'93The only American invention as perfect as the sonnet\'94, and Noel Coward prepared one by waving a glass of gin in the general direction of Italy. For 10 points each: \
[10] Name this cocktail which officially consists of 11 parts gin and 3 parts dry vermouth. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Martini
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This adjective is used to describe a martini made with equal parts sweet and dry vermouth. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Perfect
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] The Gibson is a cocktail similar to a martini, but uses one of these items as a garnish instead of an olive. \
ANSWER: A pickled 
\b \ul onion
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200\qj
\cf0 2. Answer some questions about twentieth century Argentinian literature, for 10 points each:\
[10] This author wrote a short story about a boy who can remember everything. That story, \'93Funes the Memorious,\'94 was collected in his 
\i Labyrinths
\i0  as well as his 
\i Ficciones
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Jorge Luis 
\b \ul Borges\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This man\'92s story about a photographer who takes a photo of a kiss between woman and a boy was adapted into the Atonioni film 
\i Blowup
\i0 . Name this author of the novel confusingly ordered 
\i Hopscotch.\

\i0 ANSWER: Julio 
\b \ul Cortazar\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Only recently translated into English, this author\'92s short story \'93Cecil Taylor\'94 was described by Bola\'f1o as one of the five best short stories he had ever read. He is better known for his short novel 
\i An Episode in the Life of a Landscape Painter
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Cesar 
\b \ul Aira\

\b0 \ulnone \
3. Yttrium Barium Copper Oxide was the first of these substances to display their characteristic property at a temperature above the boiling point of liquid nitrogen. For 10 points each: \
[10] Name these substances whose resistance drops to zero at low temperatures. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Superconductors
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] When two superconductors are separated by a thin layer of insulating material, electric current flows between them even without a battery in this effect named for a British physicist. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Josephson 
\b0 \ulnone Effect \
[10] Superconductors also exhibit this effect, where magnetic field lines are completely expelled from the interior of the superconductor and they become totally diamagnetic. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Meissner 
\b0 \ulnone Effect \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200
\cf0 4. Three members of this political movement were executed in Burford after mutinying in Banbury. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this political movement whose leaders included John Lilburne and whose ideas were expressed in \'93Agreement of the People.\'94\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Levellers
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] At the Putney Debates, when the Levellers debated the future of English democracy against less radical members of the New Model Army, this man chaired the proceedings. His son-in-law, Henry Ireton, argued against the Levellers.\
ANSWER: Oliver 
\b \ul Cromwell
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] At this November 1647 \'93rendezvous,\'94 the first prescribed by the Putney Debates, many Levellers refused to sign a pledge of loyalty to Thomas Fairfax and were promptly court-martialed.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Corkbush
\b0 \ulnone  Field Mutiny [or 
\b \ul Corkbush
\b0 \ulnone  Field Rendezvous; accept 
\b \ul Ware
\b0 \ulnone  Mutiny]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
5. In this novel the protagonist travels to Patusan after abandoning the ship of which he was a crewmember. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this novel in which the recurring character Charles Marlow offers help to the disgraced title sailor.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Lord Jim\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] This is the name of the ship on which Jim was working when he fails to save pilgrims traveling to Mecca.\
ANSWER: The 
\i\b \ul Patna\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] 
\i Lord Jim 
\i0 is a novel by this man who collaborated with Ford Madox Ford on the science fiction novel 
\i The Inheritors
\i0 , though he is probably better known for 
\i The Heart of Darkness
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Joseph 
\b \ul Conrad
\b0 \ulnone  (or Jozef Teodor Konrad 
\b \ul Korzeniowski
\i\b0 \ulnone )\

\i0 \
6. In the first act of this work, Ko-Ko lists people who \'93would not be missed\'94 if they were executed. FTPE:\
[10] Name this work, in which Yum-Yum and her two friends Pitti-Sing and Peep-Bo sing \'93Three little maids from school are we.\'94\
ANSWER:\ul  
\i\b The Mikado
\b0 \ulnone ; or, the Town of Titipu
\i0\b \

\b0 [10] 
\i The Mikado
\i0  is by this English duo who also penned 
\i Iolanthe
\i0  and 
\i The Pirates of Penzance
\i0 .\
ANSWER: William 
\b \ul Gilbert 
\b0 \ulnone and Arthur 
\b \ul Sullivan
\b0 \
\ulnone [10] Gilbert and Sullivan also wrote this operetta, in which the title character sings \'93My Name is John Wellington Wells\'94, and then produces a potion causing all who drink it to fall in love with the first person they see. \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Sorcerer
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
7. For ten points each, answer some questions about things named after the Czech anatomist Jan Evangelista Purkinje (pur-KIN-jee):\
[10] Numerous voltage-gated sodium channels allow rapid conduction of action potentials in the Purkinje fibres of this organ\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Heart
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Climbing fibres from the inferior olive and the parallel fibres of granule cells form synapses with the GABAergic Purkinje cells of this structure of the central nervous system\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cerebellum
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The Purkinje shift of mesopic vision occurs because the wavelength of peak sensitivity in photopic vision is longer than that of this pigment, which is used in scotopic vision.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Rhodopsin\

\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200
\cf0 8. In April 1992, 
\i The Sun
\i0  ran an election-day headline asking \'93will the last person to leave Britain please turn out the lights?\'94 if this candidate won. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this longest serving leader of a national party in Britain never to become Prime Minister.\
ANSWER: Neil 
\b \ul Kinnock
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The phrase \'93will the last person to leave please turn out the lights\'94 was first coined in 1971, when it was printed on a billboard in Seattle to reflect high unemployment numbers in the wake of turmoil within this company.\
ANSWER: The 
\b \ul Boeing
\b0 \ulnone  Company\
[10] This brash editor of 
\i The Sun
\i0  ran the anti-Kinnock headlines in 1992, as well as a mock editorial in 1987 titled \'93Why I\'92m Backing Kinnock, by Joseph Stalin.\'94\
ANSWER: Kelvin (Calder) 
\b \ul MacKenzie
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
9. This event consisted of a ten year long periods of fighting. For 10 points each:\
[10] This started after a Olympian raised by Amalthea led his siblings in rebellion against the inhabitants of Mount Othrys.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Titanomachy
\b0 \ulnone  (accept things like 
\b \ul War of the Titans
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Battle of the Gods
\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] This Titan overthrew his father, Uranus with the assistance of Gaia, his mother.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cronus
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The rebellious Olympian who, in turn, overthrew Cronus is this thunderbolt wielding Greek god.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Zeus
\b0 \ulnone \
\
10. The first of this collection of poems begins \'93Tree arising! O pure ascendance!\'94 For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this cycle of 55 poems composed during a period described by their author as a \'93savage creative storm\'94\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Sonnets to Orpheus\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] Composed concurrently with the 
\i Sonnets to Orpheus 
\i0 was this collection that opened \'93Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?\'94\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Duino Elegies\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] This German poet was inspired by the death of his friend Vera Knoop to write the 
\i Duino Elegies 
\i0 and 
\i Sonnets to Orpheus
\i0 . He wrote his poem \'93The Panther\'94 after being sent to the zoo by Rodin.\
ANSWER: Rainer Maria 
\b \ul Rilke\

\b0 \ulnone \
11. The overlap of their orbitals with those on a metal atom is considered in a namesake improvement on crystal field theory. For 10 points each: \
[10] Name these molecules which are bonded to a central metal atom in a coordination complex. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ligands
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This effect describes the tendency for a metal ion to form several bonds to one polydentate ligand in preference to a similar collection of monodentate ligands.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Chelate
\b0 \ulnone  effect \
[10] These polycyclic nitrogenous 3-D analogues of crown ethers display an extremely strong affinity for alkali metal cations, and have been used to form the sodide anion. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cryptand
\b0 \ulnone s \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200
\cf0 12. This leader fled in 1979 when his country was invaded by Vietnam, and he clung to nominal power on a sliver of rainforest land until one year before his 1998 suicide. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this genocidal leader of the Khmer Rouge who promoted agrarian dictatorship in Cambodia.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pol Pot
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul Saloth Sar
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Pol Pot filled a power vacuum created by the 1970 ouster of this Cambodian monarch, who returned to lead Cambodia in 1993.\
ANSWER: (King or Prince) Norodom 
\b \ul Sihanouk
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This Secretary of State under Ronald Reagan, who briefly declared himself \'93in charge\'94 after Reagan\'92s assassination attempt, provoked Soviet ire by accusing Moscow of supplying chemical weapons to Vietnam to produce so-called \'93Yellow Rain\'94 in Cambodia.\
ANSWER: Alexander (Meigs) 
\b \ul Haig
\b0 \ulnone  Jr.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
13. Answer some questions about a French Enlightenment philosopher, for 10 points each:\
[10] This thinker claimed in his 
\i Social Contract
\i0  that \'93man is born free, but he is everywhere in chains.\'94\
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques 
\b \ul Rousseau
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This novel-cum-philosophical treatise by Rousseau outlines his views on how to educate man such that he may survive in society.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul \'c9mile
\b0 \ulnone , or On Education\

\i0 [10] Rousseau contrasted 
\i amour propre
\i0 , self-love contingent on how one is seen by others, with this other variety of self-love. This form of the concept is what we share with animals and so is not bound by social structures.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul amour de soi\

\i0\b0 \ulnone \
14. This painting is a notable example of 
\i R\'fcckenfigur
\i0 , a painting in which a figure is depicted from behind looking at a view. For 10 points each:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\qj
\cf0 [10] Name this painting the title figure stands on a rock formation with a cane in his right hand.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Wanderer above the Sea of Fog\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] 
\i Wanderer above the Sea of Fog
\i0  is by this German painter of 
\i The Sea of Ice
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Caspar David 
\b \ul Friedrich\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This Friedrich painting depicts a group of monks conveying a coffin to the title location, which is surrounded by a gnarled and leafless trees standing in mist.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Abbey in the Oakwood\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200\qj

\i0\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
15. His most recent novel, 
\i Bleeding Edge
\i0 , tells of Maxine Tarnow, head of fraud investigation company Tail 'Em And Nail 'Em. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this reclusive author of 
\i The Crying of Lot 49
\i0 .\
ANSWER: Thomas 
\b \ul Pynchon\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Harold Blooms counts this man alongside Pynchon, Roth and McCarthy as being one of the four best living American writers. Part of his novella 
\i Point Omega
\i0  is
\i  
\i0 set at a showing of the film 
\i American Psycho
\i0  slowed down so that is lasts twenty-four hours.\
ANSWER: Don 
\b \ul DeLillo\

\b0 \ulnone [10] This other strange contemporary American author is currently living as a woman called Dolores as preparation for his upcoming novel, and he recently claimed that the FBI had him on their list of Unabomber suspects. He is probably best known for his history of violences titled 
\i Rising Up and Rising Down
\i0  and his novel 
\i Europe Central
\i0 .\
ANSWER: William Tanner 
\b \ul Vollmann
\b0 \ulnone \
\
16. The elements of these entities are listed in character tables, and examples include T\sub d\nosupersub  and C4v. For 10 points\
each: \
[10] Name these mathematical groups which give the number and nature of symmetry elements for a molecule. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Point Groups
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This point group contains molecules with twenty C\sub 3\nosupersub  rotation axes. Buckminsterfullerene is one molecule in this point group. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul I\sub h
\b0 \nosupersub \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Icosahedral 
\b0 \ulnone Point Group \
[10] The letter E is used to denote this symmetry element, which by definition leaves a molecule unchanged. Along with closure, associativity and inverses, it is one of the four properties needed to form a group.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Identity 
\b0 \ulnone element \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200
\cf0 \
17. This war was fought concurrently with the First Carnatic War in India and King George\'92s War in North America. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this war that began over the question of whether Maria Theresa could inherit the throne of the namesake country.\
ANSWER: War of the 
\b \ul Austrian Succession
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Maria Theresa\'92s father, Charles VI, had previously compelled other German leaders to sign this document of 1713, by which they promised to recognize Maria Theresa\'92s authority.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pragmatic Sanction
\b0 \ulnone  (of 1713)\
[10] One of the first great battles of the War of the Austrian Succession was this April 1741 battle in which Frederick the Great, who was new to the Prussian throne, blundered repeatedly but still managed to gain control of Silesia.\
ANSWER: Battle of 
\b \ul Mollwitz
\b0 \ulnone \
\
18. Sranan, sometimes known as Taki Taki, is a creole language used as a lingua franca in this country. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this country in the Western Hemisphere with large Javanese and East Indian populations.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Suriname
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The Javanese came to work on the plantations of Suriname at a time when both Suriname and Indonesia were colonized by this European country.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Netherlands
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The most profitable sector of Singapore\'92s economy is the mining of this product, whose largest reserves can be found in Guinea and Australia.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul bauxite
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on \'93aluminum\'94 or \'93aluminium\'94]\
\
19. For 10 points each, answer the following about anti-gay rights movements in Europe.\
[10] In December 2013, 65% of voters approved a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage in this Balkan country, which in July 2013 became the newest member of the European Union.\
ANSWER: (Republic of) 
\b \ul Croatia
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In May 2013, Dominique Venner, an ultra-nationalist writer associated with Printemps Fran\'e7ais, shot himself inside this building in protest of France\'92s gay marriage law.\
ANSWER: Cathedral of 
\b \ul Notre Dame
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In June 2013, the first openly gay member of this country\'92s parliament was beaten up at an equality parade. In November, masked hooligans lit an art installation in the shape of a rainbow on fire.\
ANSWER: (Republic of) 
\b \ul Poland
\b0 \ulnone \
\
20. Francis Fukuyama proposed in a 1989 essay that this long process was about to end with the triumph of liberal democracy.  For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this process, which has also been studied by Herodotus.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul history
\b0 \ulnone  [accept \'93The 
\b \ul End of History
\b0 \ulnone ?\'94 or 
\i The 
\b \ul End of History and the Last Man
\i0\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] Fukuyama\'92s former professor, Samuel Huntington, responded in 1992 by proposing that religious and ethnic identities would become paramount, leading future history to be characterized by this combative situation.\
ANSWER: \'93The 
\b \ul Clash of Civilizations
\b0 \ulnone ?\'94 [accept 
\i The 
\b \ul Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order
\i0\b0 \ulnone ]
\i  \

\i0 [10] Also in 1992, Benjamin Barber presented another vision of future history as a conflict between tribalism, represented by the concept of jihad, and globalism, which he represented with this made-up word.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul McWorld
\b0 \ulnone  [accept \'93
\b \ul Jihad vs. McWorld
\b0 \ulnone \'94]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri442\sl200\qj
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}