{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;}
{\info
{\author George}}\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12520\viewh14520\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\sl200

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Oxford Open 2014: Do You Want to Get with Women?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\sl200

\b0 \cf0 Edited by: Kyle Quinby Haddad-Fonda D.J. Goldman, Christopher Niall Savory, E.D. MacAulay and George \cf2 \'e0\'a0\cf0 Corfield\
Spare\
Editors\'92 Packet #4\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\ul Tossups \
\ulnone \
1. Ablation of the Pre-Botzinger Complex causes a derangement of this process and the Hering-Breuer reflex limits its magnitude. Gradual periodic fluctuations in the intensity of this process are seen in a variant named for Cheyne and Stokes. A type of this process named for Kussmaul is seen in ketoacidosis, a complication of type I diabetes. The musculature utilised in this process includes the sternocleidomastoid, intercostals and diaphragm. For 10 points, name this process by which air is moved in and out of the lungs by inhalation and exhalation.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Breathing
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul ventilation
\b0 \ulnone  and 
\b \ul respiration
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
2. In this novel, a guard claims to have seen a lady turn into a milk-white swan and fly three times around a castle tower. In this novel, a soldier named Hubert is obsessed with drawing as brave a bow as his grandsire did at Hastings. Lucas de Beaumanoir forces Sir Brian de Bois-Guilbert to fight for the Knights Templar in a trial by combat in this novel, which also sees Athelstane apparently rise from the grave. Rebecca is saved by the title son of Cedric the Saxon in, for 10 points, which novel by Sir Walter Scott?\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Ivanhoe\
\

\i0\b0 \ulnone 3. Ka\'falza de Arriaga designed the Gordian Knot Operation to fight back against this country\'92s insurgency. Samora Machel became its first president, in which capacity he fought the RENAMO rebel movement. This country\'92s flag features an AK-47 in homage to the weapon used by FRELIMO, though it was only when the Carnation Revolution overthrew the Estado Novo that it won independence. For 10 points, name this country where a struggle for independence from Portugal resulted in the establishment of a country with its capital at Maputo.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mozambique
\b0 \ulnone \
\
4. Abdul Rahman Munif titled his epic novel of the Arab oil industry for \'93Cities\'94 of this substance. A cathedral was carved out of this substance in Zipaquir\'e1, Colombia, and the Devil\'92s Golf Course is a so-called \'93pan\'94 of this type in Death Valley. The Hallstatt Culture was the first civilization to mine this product, which was taxed in France by the 
\i gabelle
\i0 . Mohandas Gandhi marched to the sea at Dandi to make this product, which is famously mined in Krakow. For 10 points, name this substance that Lot\'92s wife was turned into.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul salt
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\i\b \ul Cities of Salt
\i0\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Salt Cathedral of Zipaquir\'e1
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul salt pan
\b0 \ulnone , 
\b \ul Salt Satyagraha
\b0 \ulnone , or 
\b \ul pillar of salt
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
5. In this novel a visit to the Divine Face cattle ranch is forestalled. One character writes love letters for seventeen years, only to have them all returned to her unopened. A single man buys all of the tickets for a raffle so that he may give his beloved the music box prize. Instead of a docking in the bay, a blessing and a wave are all that is rendered by the visiting Bishop. In this book the two Vicario brothers seek out the man who took their sister Angela\'92s  virginity. For 10 points, identify this Garc\'eda M\'e1rquez novella about the murder of Santiago Nasar.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Chronicle of a Death Foretold
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
6. One swimmer from this country won the women\'92s 50 and 100 metre freestyle events at the 2012 Olympics, Ranomi Kromowidjojo. A gymnast from this country performed a Cassina-Kovacs-Kolman combination to win this country\'92s first gymnastics Olympic gold medal. One sportsman from this country beat MaliVai Washington in 1996 to end Peter Sampras\'92 three-year winning streak at Wimbledon. Two of the people who have won the Ballon D\'92Or three times are from this country. For 10 points, name this home country of Epke Zonderland, Richard Krajicek, and Johan Cruyuff. \
ANSWER: The 
\b \ul Netherlands
\b0 \ulnone \
\
7. The UCP1 protein found in some of these structures can be activated by beta-3 adrenergic signalling cascades. Defects in this structure can cause conditions such as Leigh\'92s disease and MELAS syndrome. The hydrogen hypothesis is a model for the evolutionary development of this structure while Peter Mitchell\'92s chemiosmotic theory explains its function. These organelles contain numerous infoldings called cristae as well as a viscous matrix. For 10 points, name this maternally inherited organelle, the so called powerhouse of the cell.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mitochondria
\b0 \ulnone  [or mitochondrion]\
\
8. In one work by this poet \'93A little brig I knew\'94 is \'93O\'92ertook by blast\'94 after being \'93tossed and tossed.\'94 \
This poet described \'93A service like a drum\'94 in a poem in which mourners \'93kept treading.\'94 In another poem, the narrator describes the paradoxical \'93last Onset \'96 when the King / Be witnessed.\'94 The central figure of a poem by this author of \'93I felt a funeral in my brain\'94 brings upon the narrator a \'93quivering and chill\'94 For 10 points, name this reclusive poet of  \'93I heard a fly buzz\'94 and \'93Because I could not stop for death.\'94\
ANSWER: Emily 
\b \ul Dickinson\
\

\b0 \ulnone 9. In one story she\'92s a fairy godmother who helps young Prince Ivan defeat Koschei by telling him where the heart is hidden. Vasilisa the Fair survived her encounter with this child-eating ogress, and escaped with a cool laser skull, by being kind to her neglected pets and household fixtures. If she chases after you in her flying mortar and pestle, throw a comb and a mirror at her, and hope that they turn into a forest and a lake, respectively, to slow her down. You should always be polite to, FTP, which witch from Russian folklore who lives in a hut that sits on chicken legs?\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul Baba Yaga
\b0 \ulnone \
\
10. This composer's first piano trio is in B major and opens with solo piano playing the first subject on top of a rippling quaver accompaniment. One overture by this composer features a student drinking song introduced by the bassoons, while this composer's Double Concerto for Violin and Cello was not appreciated by his mistress, the wife of another composer. This composer is known for a set of 21 tunes originally written for piano for four-hands. For ten points, name this German composer of the 
\i Academic Festival Overture 
\i0 and the 
\i Hungarian Dances.
\i0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Johannes Brahms
\b0 \ulnone \
\
11. A late work from this movement done entirely in shades of brown is\'a0
\i Mechano-Dancer
\i0 , by Vilmos Husz\'e1r. A house from this movement, designed by the maker of the Red and Black Chair, was commission by Mrs. Schr\'f6der-Schr\'e4der. The best-known member of this group broke away over an argument about the use of diagonal lines with Theo von Doesburg. Also known as neoplasticism, for 10 points, Piet Mondrian was key figure in what Dutch artistic movement?\
ANSWER:\'a0
\b \ul De Stijl
\b0 \ulnone \'a0(accept\'a0
\b \ul neoplasticism
\b0 \ulnone \'a0before mentioned)\
\
12. The logarithm of a quantity undergoing this process with drift is used to model stock prices in the Black-Scholes model. This process is a classic example of a Wiener Process, and the movement of an individual particle via this process can be predicted by the three-dimensional Langevin equation. This process, a stochastic explanation of which was offered in one of Einstein\'92s annus mirabilis papers, was first observed in pollen grains in water. For 10 points, name this random motion of small particles, named for a Scottish biologist. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Brownian
\b0 \ulnone  Motion [accept 
\b \ul pedesis
\b0 \ulnone , accept 
\b \ul Wiener
\b0 \ulnone  process until mentioned]\
\
13. The \'93ghost\'94 of this place titles a work about architecture and postmodernism by Rheinhold Martin. Lewis Mumford wrote about \'93Stories\'94 of places like this one, which Karl Mannheim paired with \'93Ideology.\'94 Samurai volunteer to rule the world in a book by H.G. Wells about a \'93modern\'94 one. Raphael Hythloday visits an island where slaves are bound with gold chains and goods are held in common in the 1516 work that coined this term. Thomas More used the Greek for \'93good place\'94 to derive, for 10 points, what name for a perfect society?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul utopia
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\i\b \ul Utopia\'92s Ghost
\i0\b0 \ulnone , 
\i The 
\b \ul Stories of Utopia
\i0\b0 \ulnone , 
\i\b \ul Ideology and Utopia
\i0\b0 \ulnone , or 
\i A 
\b \ul Modern Utopia
\i0\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
14. This person included non-standard ideas about theodicy and promoted universal reconciliation in 
\i Suggestions for Thought
\i0 . Lytton Strachey wrote as if she were possessed by a demon in 
\i Eminent Victorians
\i0 . She worked with Sidney Herbert to secure the site of Scutari for her best-known institution, where she recorded statistics to help her advocate sanitary living conditions in her report to the Royal Commission on the Health of the Army. For 10 points, name this \'93Lady with the Lamp\'94 who was a nurse during the Crimean War. \
ANSWER: Florence 
\b \ul Nightingale
\b0 \ulnone \
\
15. John Dustin Archbold, who had criticized this company, nevertheless became its final president. Its managers negotiated directly with the Lake Shore Railroad and created the short-lived South Improvement Company, which would have benefited from secret rebates. Edward Douglass White formulated the Rule of Reason when he wrote the majority opinion in a 1911 case to apply the Sherman Antitrust Act to this company. Ida Tarbell wrote a muckraking history of, for 10 points, what petroleum company founded by John D. Rockefeller?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Standard Oil
\b0 \ulnone  Co. Inc. [do not accept any of its successor companies, including \'93Standard Oil of New Jersey\'94 or any other state]\
\
16. Fouls in this sport include Flacking and Cobbing, which is defined as excessive use of elbows. Notable teams who play this sport include the Haileybury Hammers and Pride of Portree, while the Montrose Magpies are historically the most successful British Team. The Irish keeper Barry Ryan let in only one goal in the 1994 World Cup Final in this sport, while his Bulgarian opposite number let in seventeen from the Irish front three: Troy, Mullet and Moran. For 10 points, name this fictional sport played by wizards on the back of broomsticks.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Quidditch
\b0 \ulnone \
\
17. This compound was used as the solvent in an experiment by George Olah which reacted magic acid with tert-butyl alcohol to isolate the tert-butyl carbocation. This compound is released as a gas in the Ramburg-Backlund reaction, and it is commonly used to protect 1, 3-dienes. This compound is oxidised at 450\'b0C with the help of a vanadium oxide catalyst in the contact process, and it is used as a bleach in paper-making. For 10 points, name this compound which dissolves in water to give the bisulfite anion and has the molecular formula SO\sub 2\nosupersub . \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Sulfur Dioxide
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul SO\sub 2
\b0 \nosupersub \ulnone  until mentioned, accept 
\b \ul Sulfur (IV) Oxide
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
18. The protagonist of one of this man\'92s novels suggests that a visitor\'92s sunglasses might cause prisoners to think he is blind. A character that collects poplar slips with messages in a foreign alphabet is, because of this collection, suspected of communicating with the enemy who live in the desert surround the town that Colonel Joll has seized control of. In another novel by this man, a woman is raped during an attack on David Lurie\'92s farm. For 10 points, name this author of 
\i Disgrace
\i0  and 
\i Waiting for the Barbarians
\i0 .\
ANSWER: John Maxwell 
\b \ul Coetzee\
\

\b0 \ulnone 19. The flag of this territory bears a blue North Star in the upper right and a red traditional land marker in the middle. Its people voted against locating its capital at Rankin Inlet when it was established in 1995, opting instead for a city at the head of Frobisher Bay. This territory includes all of the islands in Ungava Bay, and its southernmost parts are the islands in James Bay. Ellesmere and Baffin Islands are part of, for 10 points, what territory with capital Iqaluit that broke away from the Northwest Territories to become Canada\'92s third territory?\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nunavut\

\b0 \ulnone \
20. A civil war within this country, known as the Raron Affair, resulted in the plundering of Sion via the Sanetsch Pass. This country enhanced its autonomy with victories over the Hapsburgs at Morgarten and Sempach, and it attained roughly its current size in the 1500s by annexing Ticino. It survived the Thirty Years\'92 War in part because all sides hired its mercenaries, and during that time it converted to Protestantism under the leadership of Huldrych Zwingli. For 10 points, name this country whose canton of Uri was home to William Tell.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Switzerland
\b0 \ulnone  [accept Old 
\b \ul Swiss Confederacy
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Swiss Confederation
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
\ul Bonuses\ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 1. Answer some questions about the 2013 Tour de France. For 10 points each: \
[10] This Kenyan-born cyclist improved on his 2012 second-place finish by becoming the second British cyclist to win the Tour de France. \
ANSWER: Chris 
\b \ul Froome
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This young Slovakian Rider took over the green jersey from Marcel Kittel on Stage 3, and held it to the finish, winning the points classification. \
ANSWER: Peter 
\b \ul Sagan
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This German rider raced his final Tour de France in 2013 at the age of 41. He was noted for his consistently attacking style, and fittingly he won the Combativity Award on Stage 20. \
ANSWER: Jens 
\b \ul Voigt
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
2. Answer some questions about branches of Islam, for 10 points each:\
[10] This is the second largest Islamist denomination after the Sunnis\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Shia
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This branch of Islam, found primarily Israel and surrounding countries is itself an offshoot of Ismailism.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Druze
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The largest branch of Shia Islam is this group which believes in their namesake number of Imams.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Twelvers
\b0 \ulnone  or Imami Shia Islam\
\
3. Answer some questions about the theory of computation, for 10 points each:\
[10] This way of describing a string of characters allows for three inductive rules: union, concatenation and star. Kleene\'92s Axioms describe the rules allowable for the algebra of these.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Regular Expressions
\b0 \ulnone  (
\b \ul regex
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul regexp
\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] All regular expressions can be converted into deterministic state automata, but there are some strings that cannot be expressed by such automata. These automata that add a stack can describe some more complex strings.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Pushdown
\b0 \ulnone  automata (accept 
\b \ul PDA
\b0 \ulnone )\
[10] This most expressive form of automata is the namesake of a homosexual WWII code breaker.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Turing Machine\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
4. This play centers on Nero\'92s sudden obsession with the title character's fianc\'e9e, Junia. For 10 points each:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 [10] Name this play, in which Nero pretends to his mother, Agrippina, that he will relent in his pursuit, but, in actuality, has the title character killed off stage.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Britannicus\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] 
\i Britannicus
\i0  is a work of this 17\super th\nosupersub -century French playwright of 
\i Andromaque 
\i0 and 
\i Athalie
\i0 .
\i \

\i0 ANSWER: Jean 
\b \ul Racine\

\b0 \ulnone [10] In this other play by Jean Racine, the wife of Theseus is the center of much drama concerning her love for her stepson Hippolytus, who is himself in love with the Aricie, a member of the bloodline of Athens' royalty.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Ph\'e8dre\

\i0\b0 \ulnone \
5. Irving Langmuir coined a name for these substances as they reminded him of a clear liquid which makes up most of blood. For 10 points each: \
[10] Name this \'93fourth state of matter\'94 which consists of an ionised gas. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Plasma
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] An important characteristic of a plasma is this length, the distance beyond which the effect of an electric charge is screened. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Debye
\b0 \ulnone  length \
[10] Plasmas are also home to these low-frequency waves which propagate along magnetic field lines. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Alfven
\b0 \ulnone  Waves \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\qj
\cf0 \
6. This painting man shows a double file line of haggard figures trawling a boat. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this painting by a member of the Wanderers.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Barge Haulers on the Volga\

\i0\b0 \ulnone [10] 
\i Barge Haulers on the Volga 
\i0 and 
\i Religious Procession in Kursk Province
\i0  are works of this painter.\
ANSWER: Ilya Yefimovich 
\b \ul Repin\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Ilya Repin and the rest of the Wanderers were from this country through which the Volga flows.
\i  \

\i0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Russia
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\qj
\cf0 7. Answer some questions about a contemporary philosopher, for 10 points each:\
[10] A noted opponent of the four-dimensional view of persistence, this philosopher proposed a thought experiment in which a violinist with a kidney condition is hooked up to you for the purposes of survival.\
ANSWER: Judith Jarvis 
\b \ul Thomson\

\b0 \ulnone [10] The violinist thought experiment was proposed in an article called \'93A Defense of\'94 this politically fraught action.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Abortion\

\b0 \ulnone [10] J.J. Thomson also proposed the fat man version of this thought experiment, in which one is asked if they would flip a switch in order to save multiple people at the cost of the life of one person.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Trolley
\b0 \ulnone  problem \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 8. Answer some questions about ambulance drivers, for 10 points each:\
[10] This ambulance driver\'92s 
\i U.S.A.
\i0  trilogy contains a series of sections called \'93The Camera Eye,\'94 one of which contains a statement about Sacco and Vanzetti: \'93All right we are two nations.\'94\
ANSWER: Jon 
\b \ul Dos Passos
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This autobiographical novel by the ambulance driver cum poet E. E. Cummings juxtaposes his idiosyncratic style of punctuation with the voice of a well-educated intellectual.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul The Enormous Room
\i0\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Perhaps the best-known ambulance driver of all time, this man\'92s novel 
\i A Farewell to Arms
\i0  traces Fred Hnery\'92s relationship with Catherine Barkley during WWI.\
ANSWER: Ernest 
\b \ul Hemingway\

\b0 \ulnone \
9. A molecule containing three phenyl groups bonded to an atom of this element is used to convert a trioxolane into two carbonyls in the final step of ozonolysis. For 10 points each: \
[10] Name this element which is bonded to oxygen and carbon in the betaine intermediate in the Wittig reaction. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Phosphorus
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Triphenylphosphine is used along with DEAD in this steroselective esterification reaction. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mitsunobu
\b0 \ulnone  Reaction \
[10] Phosphodiester bonds join ribose sugars in the backbone of this biological molecule, which also contains the bases adenine, cytosine, guanine and uracil. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul R
\b0 \ulnone ibo
\b \ul n
\b0 \ulnone ucleic 
\b \ul a
\b0 \ulnone cid \
\
10. The Barmakid family provided several advisers to the Caliphs of this dynasty. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this Islamic dynasty, which continued to have nominal authority in Cairo even after Hulagu Khan sacked its capital in 1261.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Abbasid
\b0 \ulnone  Dynasty or Caliphate [or al-Khilafa al-
\b \ul \'91Abbasiyya
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] The Abbasid capital city which Hulagu Khan sacked was this \'93round city\'94 built by the Caliph al-Mansur.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Baghdad
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Before al-Mansur ordered the construction of Baghdad, the Abbasid Caliphate was centered at this other city in modern-day Iraq. One of the original Arab garrison cities in Iraq along with Basra, it was the city where Ali ibn Abi Talib was assassinated.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Kufa
\b0 \ulnone \
\
11. In the final movement of this symphony, the five main themes of the movement are woven together into one fugue in the coda. FTPE:\
[10] This symphony, the final written by its composer, features a second movement in F major, apocryphally inspired by the death of the composer's child.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Symphony No. 41
\i0\b0 \ulnone , or 
\i\b \ul Jupiter Symphony
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
[10] The 
\i Jupiter Symphony
\i0  was the last symphony written by this composer of 
\i Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.
\i0 \
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus 
\b \ul Mozart
\b0 \ulnone \
\
[10] Mozart wrote two concerti, in G and D major, for this instrument, as well as the more famous concerto for this instrument and harp in C major.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Flute
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\
12. In this work of satire George Psalmazar is mocked for his claim of being the friend Formosan to visit Europe. For 10 points each:\
[10] Identify this essay in the author suggests that we take to eating children.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul A Modest Proposal
\b0  \ulnone for Preventing the Children of Poor People From Being a Burthen to Their Parents or Country, and for Making Them Beneficial to the Publick
\i0 \
[10] 
\i A Modest Proposal
\i0  is a work by this 18\super th\nosupersub  century British satirist.\
ANSWER: Jonathan 
\b \ul Swift
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In this series of pamphlets, Swift railed against William Wood\'92s coinage, which he believed was debasing the currency.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Drapier\'92s Letters
\i0\b0 \ulnone  \
\
13. For 10 points each, answer the following about the work of sociolinguist Charles Ferguson.\
[10] Ferguson led the team at Stanford University that designed this standardized test, which is administered to non-native English speakers to prove that they can understand English.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul TOEFL
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Test of English as a Foreign Language
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Ferguson used this term, derived from the Greek, to refer to a phenomenon in which people in one area use two different registers of a language. Ferguson\'92s classical examples included German and Swiss German, French and Haitian Creole, and Standard and vernacular Arabic.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul diglossia
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] In 1976, Ferguson defined a \'93language area\'94 in this country and argued that contact between languages in the Semitic, Cushitic, and Omotic families had resulted in those languages adopting shared characteristics.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ethiopia
\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\b \ul Ethiopian
\b0 \ulnone  language area]\
\
14. The Cat and Mouse Act of 1913 allowed for these people to be released from Holloway Road Prison whenever they became ill from hunger strikes. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name these activists, whose number included Emmeline Pankhurst.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul suffragette
\b0 \ulnone s or 
\b \ul suffragist
\b0 \ulnone s [accept anything having to do with agitating for the rights of 
\b \ul women
\b0 \ulnone  to 
\b \ul vote
\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] In 1914, Mary Richardson slashed this Diego Vel\'e1zquez painting of a goddess looking in a mirror in protest of Pankhurst\'92s arrest.\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Rokeby Venus
\i0\b0 \ulnone  [accept 
\i The 
\b \ul Toilet of Venus
\i0\b0 \ulnone , 
\i\b \ul Venus at her Mirror
\i0\b0 \ulnone , 
\i\b \ul Venus and Cupid
\i0\b0 \ulnone , or 
\i La 
\b \ul Venus del espejo
\i0\b0 \ulnone ]\
[10] This leader of the National Union of Women\'92s Suffrage Societies, a more moderate activist than Pankhurst, organized the so-called \'93Mud March\'94 for votes in 1907.\
ANSWER: Millicent (Garrett) 
\b \ul Fawcett
\b0 \ulnone  [accept Millicent 
\b \ul Garrett
\b0 \ulnone ] \
\
15. From 1605 to 1606, Russia was ruled by the first of these people, whose real name may have been Grigory Otrepyev. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name these people who claimed to be a person who was actually probably assassinated in Uglich.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul False Dmitriy
\b0 \ulnone s\
[10] The real Dmitriy was the youngest son of this leader of the Rurik Dynasty who declared himself Tsar of All the Russians in 1547.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ivan IV
\b0 \ulnone  Vasilyevich [or 
\b \ul Ivan the Terrible
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Ivan Grozny
\b0 \ulnone ; prompt on \'93Ivan\'94]\
[10] One of the few accomplishments of the reign of the first False Dmitriy was to re-establish Yuri\'92s Day, a feast day on which serfs had the right to do this.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul move somewhere else to serve a different lord
\b0 \ulnone  [accept any similar answer suggesting that serfs when from one master to another]\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1
\cf0 16. Answer some questions on antibiotics. For 10 points each:\
[10] The work of Florey, Chain and Heatley elucidated the structure of this antibiotic and allowed its bulk production.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Penicillin
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This functional group is found in penicillins, carbapenems and cephalosporins\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Beta lactam
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Sometimes bacteria develop a resistance to beta lactam drugs by acquisition of a beta lactamase enzyme. This drug is used to inhibit beta lactamases and is often given with amoxicillin under the trade name Augmentin.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Clavulanic acid
\b0 \ulnone  [accept potassium 
\b \ul clavulanate]
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 \
\
17. This literary magazine was largely the result of Wyndham Lewis, and functioned as an outlet for the Vorticists. For 10 points each:\
[10] This magazine\'92s first edition featured an essay titled \'93Vortex\'94 in which its author claimed, in all caps, that \'93\'a0EVERY CONCEPT, EVERY EMOTION PRESENTS ITSELF TO THE VIVID CONSCIOUSNESS IN SOME PRIMARY FORM\
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul BLAST
\i0\b0 \ulnone  magazine\
[10] That essay was by this anti-Semitic poet of 
\i Hugh Selwyn Mauberly 
\i0 and the two line poem \'93In a Station of the Metro\'94\
ANSWER: Ezra 
\b \ul Pound
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Pound made many translations of Li Po poems. The narrator of this poem says of that title figure that she \'93walked about my seat, playing with blue plums\'94 and commits to meeting her \'93as far a Cho-fu-Sa\'94\
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul The River-Merchant\'92s Wife
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385\qj

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 18. For 10 points each, answer the following about fortifications for the transshipment of slaves:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri385
\cf0 [10] Cape Coast and Elmina Castles were originally built to bolster the gold trade in this country formerly known as the Gold Coast, though they later became notorious for holding slaves.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ghana\

\b0 \ulnone [10] Gor\'e9e Island, a base from which the French purchased slaves from the indigenous African tribes, is now part of this national capital city.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Dakar
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Malindi was the main slave port on this island, where the slave trade was regulated by the Moresby Treaty signed by Sayyid Sa\'92id.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Zanzibar
\b0 \ulnone \
\
19. For 10 points each, answer the following about recent claims of spying on world leaders.\
[10] This leader of the Christian Democratic Union was infuriated in October 2013 when Edward Snowden leaked information that the NSA had bugged her mobile phone.\
ANSWER: Angela (Dorothea) 
\b \ul Merkel
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Documents leaked by Snowden showed that Canada had explicitly allowed the United States to spy on leaders attending a meeting in Toronto in 2010 of this organization, which includes the European Union as a member.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul G-20
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Group of Twenty
\b0 \ulnone  Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors\
[10] Another Snowden leak charged that Australia\'92s Defence Signals Directorate bugged the phones of this world leader and many others in his inner circle, including his wife, in 2009. This man criticized Australia in November 2013 after Tony Abbott refused to apologize.\
ANSWER: Susilo Bambang 
\b \ul Yudhoyono
\b0 \ulnone \
\
20. Henry VII\'92s tax policies provoked a rebellion of tin miners in 1497 in this English county. For 10 points each:\
[10] Name this westerly county, whose Stannary Parliament had been given special privileges by Edward I.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cornwall
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] The Cornish rebels in 1497 were also partly inspired by this claimant to the English throne, who landed in Cornwall that year.\
ANSWER: Perkin 
\b \ul Warbeck
\b0 \ulnone  [prompt on \'93Richard of Shrewsbury\'94 or \'93Duke of York\'94]\
[10] Perkin Warbeck and the Cornish rebels were finally defeated near the River Ravensbourne at this June 1497 battle.\
ANSWER: Battle of 
\b \ul Deptford
\b0 \ulnone  Bridge [accept Battle of 
\b \ul Blackheath
\b0 \ulnone ]\
}