{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f24\froman\fcharset256\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f24\froman\fcharset256\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red34\green34\blue34;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3037421}{\info{\title Triacontakaipentagon 2}{\author John Lawrence}{\operator John Lawrence}{\creatim\yr2014\mo8\dy2\hr7\min2}{\revtim\yr2014\mo8\dy2\hr18\min16}{\version9}{\edmins56}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords4666}{\nofchars26597}{\nofcharsws32662}{\vern24577}}\margl1440\margr1440 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale200\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot10748335 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid3037421\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Triacontakaipentagon 2.5\par Packet by Michael Coates, John Lawrence, Max Schindler, and Chris Ray\par [SOMEHOW WE SCREWED UP, AND THIS PACKET HAS ONLY 34 QUESTIONS. SORRY! BUT, PLEASE READ IT ANYWAY!]\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 1. In one song, this artist notes that although he \ldblquote made a mil trappin'\rdblquote , he is presently trying to \ldblquote take the t off and make a mil rappin'\rdblquote ; that song begins with a minute-long unedited sample of Bon Jovi's \ldblquote Wanted Dead or Alive\rdblquote .  In another track he claims that \ldblquote if you ain't talkin' money then you've got a speech impediment\rdblquote , while in one of his singles he notes his recent acquisition of }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \ldblquote pants made out of snakeskin\rdblquote  and asserts that \ldblquote you a bitch, you a ho\rdblquote  is \ldblquote just [his] philosophy\rdblquote .  That song was produced by Pharrell, and in it this artist claims that he will be }{\fs20\cf17\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  \ldblquote fresh as hell\rdblquote  in the title situation.  One of this artist's songs which features Kanye West discusses a \ldblquote bad bitch contest\rdblquote  and asks the listener to \ldblquote bury [him] inside the Gucci store\rdblquote , in addition to frequently noting his desire for a \ldblquote big booty ho\rdblquote .  For 10 points, identify this artist, formerly known as Tity Boi, whose hits include \ldblquote Feds Watching\rdblquote  and the \ldblquote Birthday Song\rdblquote .\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 2 Chainz}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  [accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Tity Boi}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  before it is mentioned; accept Tauheed }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Epps}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ]\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 2. According to one philosopher, performing this process well requires distinguishing differences of meaning from differences of knowledge, the latter of which are classified as intrusive "collateral information". The fact that "standing sentences" can be repeated unprompted by circumstances make them unhelpful in performing this process, unlike "occasion sentences". In one work, this process is described as determining the conditions under which someone would be disposed to}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  assent to a word, which is called the "stimulus meaning". That work also describes someone attempting to perform this process receiving the response "Evet!" after pointing to a \u9658\'5f rabbit and asking "Gavagai?". A chapter on this process "and Meaning" in W.V.O. Quine's }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Word and Object}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  postulates this process's "radical" form and its "indeterminacy" . For 10 points, name this process of assigning meanings to foreign words.  \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: (radical) }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 translation}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  [do NOT prompt on or accept "understanding" or "interpretation", which are not the same concepts in this branch of philosophy]\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 3. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 A dubious account relates how this man\rquote s troops under Tanaji Malusare were carried by ropes tied to monitor lizards up the walls of Sinhugad. James Laine\rquote s 2003 book about this employer of the spymaster Bahirji Naik led the Bandarkhar Institute to be attacked by gangs named for one of this man\rquote s sons, who was kept as a hostage under the Treaty of}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Purandar by Jai Singh. He defeated Shaista Khan at Chakan and revolted against the Adilshahi Sultanate, building a massive network of forts like Raigad and creating the first major navy in his country\rquote s history. This father of Rajaram and Sambhaji and member of the }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Bhonsle clan is known for fighting a guerilla war in the Deccan Plateau against Aurangzeb. For 10 points, name this man unhealthily revered by Indian nationalists and Maharashtrans, the founder of the 17th-century Maratha Kingdom and namesake of reprehensible political party Shiv Sena. \par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Shivaji}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Bhonsle \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl280\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 4. One \ldblquote sequel\rdblquote  to this event featured mostly discussion of McDonald\rquote s, leading to its derisive nickname \ldblquote Happy Meal.\rdblquote  This event was compared to a \ldblquote work of art\u8230\'85like a Mona Lisa or some shit\rdblquote  in another followup, which took place behind the fin of the }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Great Fox }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 and involved most of the original participants. Following this event, one onlooker shouted \ldblquote my}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  frickin\rquote  dick hurts,\rdblquote  prompting another to note \ldblquote we\rquote re all a little bit hard.\rdblquote  This event\rquote s popularity was due to commentary by Waffles, Phil, and Mango, who began shouting when a sweetspotted knee kills Zhu\rquote s Fox. It was preceded by the exclamation \ldblquote happy feet,\rdblquote  followed by repetition of the phrase }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f\~}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \ldblquote That ain\rquote t Falco!\rdblquote  For ten points, identify this event, captured in a Youtube video, in which a series of successive attacks in }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Super Smash Bros. Melee }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 is referred to by the title rhyming phrase.}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Wombo Combo\par }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 5. During a meal, one character in this story bursts out and says: "Malebranche was right: we are not our own light." An unseen character in this story is purportedly cured of a sty when her chiropractor boyfriend repeatedly pops her neck. One character in this story likes to tell stories about how often one of her daughters vomits; those daughters' names are mockingly and punningly called}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  Glycerin and Caramel by another character. Multiple characters in this story claim that the title folks are "the \u9658\'5f salt of the earth". Near the end of this story, two characters kiss in the hayloft of a barn, before one of them pulls a bottle of whisky out of a hollowed-out copy of one of the bibles he's been selling. For 10 points, name this story by Flannery O'Connor that ends with Manley Pointer stealing Joy Hopewell's artificial leg. \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: "}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Good Country People}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 "\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 6. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Theories about this painting\rquote s subject focus on the fact that it depicts no tomb-sweeping and analysis of its use of \ldblquote boundary painting\rdblquote  to render buildings with the aid of mathematical tools. Investigations into this work\rquote s subject often focus on its wine shops or a structure theorized to be Rainbow}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Bridge, whose packed crowd of onlookers frantically gesture to a boat approaching with its mast up. This painting follows a linear path from outlying pastoral woods through a marketplace and past a looming gate, which opens for a camel caravan. This 17-foot by 10-inch work may show either a seasonal celebration or simply the calm bustle of city life in }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f }{\fs20\insrsid3037421 Kaifeng. Created by Zhang Zeduan during the 12th century, for 10 points, name this most famous painting in Chinese history, a Northern Song scroll possibly set along the title waterway. \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421 ANSWER: Along the }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 River}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  During the }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Qingming}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Festival [or Peace Reigns Over the River; accept literally anything involving both }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 River}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  and }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Qingming}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 ; accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Spring}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  instead of }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Qingming}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 ]}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 7. This figure analogizes one military victory of his to a \ldblquote reunion of a mother and her children\rdblquote , arguing that it played the key role in renewing his people's will to fight for independence; that battle now serves as the namesake for a musical group popular in his country.  This figure claims to have established a network of secret camps and a \ldblquote revolutionary army\rdblquote  besides building a mountain fortress to serve as a base of operations on his country's highest peak, and in his autobiography he discusses the symbolism of that mountain as the}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  \ldblquote ancestral\rdblquote  home of his nation.  This man commanded troops at the Battle of Pochonbo, and his son claims to have been born on the aforementioned Mount \u9658\'5f Paektu.  He fought against the Japanese during World War II, and is claimed to have first outlined his philosophy of independence and self-reliance as an eighteen-year-old.  For 10 points, identify this former guerrilla and founder of the }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Juche}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  ideology.\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Kim Il-sung\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 8. Bob Russell overcame this issue using a specially doctored toy xylophone. George Gershwin once applied for a job helping a songwriter with this difficulty, but the songwriter rejected Gershwin's application, on the grounds that Gershwin was too talented. Though he is generally rumored to have this problem, Danny}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  Elfman publicly claims that he does not. Besides obesity, this is the major difficulty that hampered Luciano Pavarotti's career. A transposing piano was invented to help the songwriter of "I Love a Piano", \u9658\'5f "Easter Parade", and "God Bless America", who had this condition, which jazz musicians get around by making "head arrangements". For 10 points, Irving Berlin and Paul McCartney compose in spite of what challenge, which is usually resolved by an amanuensis. \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 cannot read music}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  [accept "write" instead of read"; accept clear equivalents, or "}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 musical illiteracy}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 "]\par }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 9. }{\fs20\insrsid3037421 [NOTE: Andrew Hart cannot buzz on this question]\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Dutch businessman Frans van Anraat was sentenced to 15 years in prison for his role in facilitating this event. This event occurred over a decade after its targets were robbed of foreign backing by the Algiers Accord. This event was designed as retaliation after an attack on General Shirazi in Operation Zafar 7 failed to take Sulaymaniyah. This event was eschewed in favor of the more easily-proved Dujail massacre during the trial of its ultimate perpetrator. Journalists led by Kaveh Golestan attempted to evacuate children after discovering this event during a helicopter flyover. This most infamous action of the}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  al-Anfal campaign seems to have involved an unusual combination of cyanide blood agents, blister agents, and nerve }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f }{\fs20\insrsid3037421 agents like tabun, VX, or sarin. The group victimized in this event assigned the epithet \ldblquote Kimyawi\rdblquote  to Ali Hassan al-Majid. Chemical Ali carried out, for 10 points, what poison gas attack by the Saddam Hussein regime on a namesake Kurdish village in 1988?\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Halabja}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Poison Gas Attack [or equivalents; accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Bloody Friday}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 ; accept al-}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Anfal}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Campaign before mentioned; prompt on general answers like \ldblquote Saddam's chemical attack on the Kurds,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Kurdish Genocide,\rdblquote  etc.]}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl280\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 10. These devices are typically stored in a stainless steel casing, which acts like a Faraday cage to aid in dispersal. The physicist who invented this device claimed to have come upon the idea when falling while hanging a clock above his toilet. Thirty years after its invention, improvements to it made it able to run on material exceeding the}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  triple product modification of Lawson\rquote s criterion, while also mounting it on an airborne platform; that Mr. Fusion-powered variety was invented in 2015. A }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  bolt of lightning once replaced the nuclear-powered 1.21 gigawatts of power this technology requires to operate. For 10 points, identify this Doc Brown-created device, which, when moving at 88 miles per hour, enables a DeLorean to travel through time in the }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Back to the Future }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 series.}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 flux capacitor}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 s\par }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 11. This people's language and surnames became popular among nobles during the reign of Vasiliy II.  The Makariev Trading Fair near Nizhny Novgorod was created to challenge the dominance of one of this people's cities as a place of exchange with the East.  Russia's tendency towards \ldblquote Oriental despotism\rdblquote  is sometimes credited as being a remnant of the}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  \ldblquote yoke\rdblquote  named for this group and the the Mongols; that \ldblquote yoke\rdblquote  was broken by Ivan III's Great Stand on the Ugra against this people.  Effective military engineering and a large number of cannons aided in the 1552 capture of a city defended by this people; \u9658\'5f Saint Basil's Cathedral was constructed to commemorate that victory of Ivan the Terrible.  For 10 points, identify this of Turkic group, whose settlements along the southern Volga included Kazan.\par ANSWER: Volga }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Tatar}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 s [or Volga }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Tartar}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 s]\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 12. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Emerald Wasp venom blocks a chemically-similar insect equivalent of this compound, causing cockroaches to docilely follow the wasp to its nest, then relax as their internal organs are slowly devoured by larvae over the course of a week. MAOIs can cause that chemical, first isolated from octopus saliva, to replace this compound in the body, triggering a}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  hypertensive crisis. Reboxetine is a controversial reuptake inhibitor of this compound, which is governed by the locus coeruleus. It's not dopamine, but it may govern the P300 event-related potential due to its role in attention. Like dopamine and serotonin, its reuptake is blocked by triple-inhibitors such as }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 cocaine. Like a similar compound with a methyl group, its release quickens heart rate and underlies the fight-or-flight response. For 10 points, name this catecholamine whose name indicates its similarity to adrenaline.\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Norepinephrine}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  [or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Noradrenaline}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 ; prompt on octapamine; prompt on \ldblquote dopamine\rdblquote  before \ldblquote octopus;\rdblquote  do NOT accept epinephrine or adrenaline]\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 13. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 An animated series named for this character used "Sing dem grossen Bassa Lieder" from }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 The Abduction from the Seraglio }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 as its theme tune. A live-action game show based around this character's franchise featured a bird-like sorceress named Medeva and a mad scientist named Dr. Belljar. An early game for this character featured an annoying blond travel agent working for World Wide Travel; later games used Good}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  Guides, such as Herman Nootix and Kim Yoonity. In many of the games named for this character, arriving in the correction location resulted in the appearance of a  \u9658\'5f V.I.L.E. henchman. Lynne Thigpen is best known for playing the chief of the ACME detective agency, which hunts this character in various games that require chasing her through the USA, the World, or through time. For 10 points, name this red fedora-clad master thief from a series of educational children's computer games. \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Carmen}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Sandiego}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  [accept either name]\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 14. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 This god defeated one enemy after his wife prostitute herself to Hupasiyas to lure that enemy to the Purulli festival. This god had his eyes and heart stolen after losing a fight, but married his son to the victor's daughter in order to deviously secure their return as a wedding gift. After the ruse is revealed, he is forced to kill both that foe and his son}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Sarruma. This non-Greek god is depicted with a labrys, a two-handed axe, denoting his role as a thunder god. He is paired with either Heshat or Inaru in the two major myth systems that worshipped him. This god is a grandson of Anu through his father, who spat him out along with his brother Tigris after biting off Anu's }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 genitals. Noted for defeating the dragon Illuyankas, for 10 points, name this son of Kumarbi and chief god/thunder deity of Hurrian and Hittite myth.\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Tarhunt}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  [or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Teshub}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 ]\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl280\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 15. A poem in this group asks what Tisiphone drives its addressee mad, and whether that addressee wouldn\rquote t much prefer a \ldblquote boyfriend who wouldn\rquote t quarrel all night\rdblquote  to a wife. One poem in this collection recalls an earlier poet\rquote s lover, whose \ldblquote bright eyes dimmed at the death\rdblquote  of a sparrow, or another who }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \ldblquote offered her breasts for mighty infants to drain,\rdblquote  Sextus Propertius\rquote  mistress Hostia. That poem in this collection begins by describing a time when \ldblquote a chilly cave offered a modest home, enclosed\u8230\'85the gods of the hearth\rdblquote  and }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f\~}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \ldblquote Chastity lingered on Earth in Saturn\rquote s reign.\rdblquote  The most famous line in these poems expresses concern over those who \ldblquote win a prize for secrecy about the lewd girl\rquote s affairs.\rdblquote  For 10 points, name this set of sixteen poems, the sixth of which laments woman\rquote s lack of virtue and asks \ldblquote who watches the watchmen?\rdblquote }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Juvenal\rquote s }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Satires}{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 [or Decimus Iunius }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Iuvenalis\rquote  }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Satirae}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ]}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 16. When the electricity is restored after a power outage in this film, a record-player starts playing the song "Sh-Boom" once again. One actress in this film improvised a speech in which she describes feeling flames on the side of her face. A connection is established between two characters in this film when one of them declares a preparation of monkey's }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 brains to be one of her favorite recipes. One character in this film insists that a gun must be out of bullets, because 1}{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 + 2 + 2 + 1 shots were fired from it. In this film, a singing telegram girl is shot with a revolver, and a busty French maid named \u9658\'5f Yvette is strangled with a rope. In the last of this film's three different  endings, the Tim Curry-played Wadsworth the butler is revealed to be the mastermind behind the blackmail scheme. For 10 points, name this 1985 mystery-comedy film based on a board game that features characters like Mrs. Peacock and Colonel Mustard.  \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Clue\par }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 17. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 This player posted a photo to his Twitter showing him and a shorter teammate as middle schoolers with the caption \ldblquote STARTED FROM THE BOTTOM.\rdblquote  In 2014, this player somewhat dangerously jumped off his boat in Lake Travis and swam toward a group of blondes after they began calling his name during a bachelorette party. In a bizarre sequence, this player was cut after being benched for someone named \ldblquote Derrick Brown\rdblquote  and Desegana Diop, owing to Paul}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Silas's frustation over his unwillingness to be a volume shooter for Charlotte. This player announced \ldblquote that was not difficult\rdblquote  after leaping over the highest bar on a Vertec jump machine \endash  only after briefly setting down his trademark }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  cappuccino. A recent article on him called him \ldblquote Mon Frere,\rdblquote  referencing his relationship with point guard and countryman Tony Parker. This player recently signed a 3-year, $22 million contract after playing a key role in the 2014 finals. For 10 points, name this brilliant French big man and key piece for the San Antonio Spurs.\par ANSWER: Boris }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Diaw}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 18. One historian of this period argues that we must ask the question \ldblquote why not?\rdblquote  rather than \ldblquote why?\rdblquote  in seeking to understand it, citing the role of \ldblquote uncontrollable forces\rdblquote  in it.  That man, Paul Schroeder, has analogized this period to a \ldblquote Galloping Gertie\rdblquote .  Arno Mayer cites the rise of radical groups in characterizing this period as \ldblquote counterrevolutionary\rdblquote  and arguing for \ldblquote The Primacy of}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  Domestic\rdblquote , rather than international, \ldblquote politics\rdblquote .  This period is characterized as the beginning of the \ldblquote Age of Catastrophe\rdblquote  in }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 The Age of Extremes}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ; in that work Eric Hobsbawm argues that the beginning of this period was also the beginning of the \u9658\'5f \ldblquote Short Twentieth Century\rdblquote .  Factors traditionally cited as contributing to the beginning of this conflict include rigid war plans, militarism, alliances, imperialism, and nationalism.  For 10 points, identify this conflict, which was sparked by Gavrilo Princip's assassination of Franz Ferdinand.\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 World War I}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  [or the }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 First World War}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  or the }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Great War}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ]\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl280\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 19. The area of objects of this specific type can be found by Bretschneider\rquote s formula, which generalizes Brahmagupta\rquote s formula for a subclass of them. George Szekeres and Esther Klein }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 got married shortly after proving the existence of one of these geometric objects in what Erdos dubbed the Happy Ending problem. If you want to draw the graph K-sub-4 in the plane with straight edges and no }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f\~}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 crossings, you sure as hell better }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 NOT}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  place the vertices to form one of these objects. The diagonals of these objects all intersect at their center of mass. For 10 points, identify these polygons which have four angles, each of less than 180 degrees.}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 convex quadrilateral}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 s\par }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 20. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 This man's most famous collaborator designed a capital compound that uses a semi-circular building to represent the unification of divided peoples, and is located in Pretoria, South Africa. This architect created a doll house complete with working toilets and \endash  somehow \endash  flushable toilet paper for Queen Mary. Four different-sized interlocking arches rise above a graveyard in this man's monument to the missing dead of the Somme at Thiepval. Crowds observe Remembrance Day around the}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  Cenotaph designed by this architect, who also built the \ldblquote King of King Street\rdblquote  and a notable granite castle Devon. This collaborator of Herbert Baker created a monument to the Anglo-Afghan War and left a number of sketches for his most famous project depicting nearby structures and featuring phrases such as \ldblquote more like }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f }{\fs20\insrsid3037421 Hin-DON'T!\rdblquote .  This man created an eponymous \ldblquote Bungalow Zone\rdblquote  along Lodhi Road terminating at the Viceroy's House, now the Presidential Palace of India. For 10 points, name this British architect known for planning much of New Delhi.\par ANSWER: Sir Edwin }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Lutyens}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par 21. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Slava Gerovitch has argued that the language of this field displaced Stalinist rhetoric in Soviet science and politics during the \ldblquote scientific-technical revolution\rdblquote .  Stafford Beer worked on a project for Salvador Allende's government which attempted to utilize the principles of this field to implement a real-time planned economy with the assistance of a telex network.  The}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  second-order form of this field was influenced by quantum mechanics and focuses on the interaction between systems and their observers.  The most prominent figure associated with this field popularized his ideas in \u9658\'5f }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 The Human Use of Human Beings}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ; that man is Norbert Wiener.  For 10 points, identify this field which attempts to study systems using analytical tools such as feedback loops, and includes control theory.\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 cybernetics\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 22. One character in this film gets his face covered in jam when a jam catapult fires and no toast pops out of the toaster to catch the jam. That character in this film avoids detection while hiding in a cardboard box, when he fortunately cuts eye holes in the eyes of a dog food advertisement. In this film, a jewel-thief "chicken" wanted by the police is actually the protagonists' }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 lodger, wearing a red rubber glove on his head. This film climaxes with a sequence in which a protagonist must rapidly lay down railroad tracks in order to chase the villainous \u9658\'5f penguin, Feathers McGraw, who is escaping on a toy train with the diamond stolen from the museum. The sequel to the a film about a journey to the moon, }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 A Grand Day Out}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 , for 10 points, name this second Wallace & Gromit short film, which concerns a mechanical pair of pants.  \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Wrong Trousers}{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 [prompt on "Wallace & Gromit" before mentioned]\par }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 23. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 The unfortunately-named Sardinian saint Lucifer was among three bishops dismissed for opposing this doctrine, allowing the installation of its advocate Auxentius in Milan. The councils of Sirmium and Rimini attempted to reconcile the controversy of this belief. Notable opponents of this belief include Flacilla. Hilary of }{\fs20\insrsid3037421 Poitiers became known as the \ldblquote Hammer\rdblquote  of this belief's adherents, and other opponents include Martin of Tours and the author of }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421 On the Incarnation of the Word of God}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 . Emperors Constantius II and }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 Valens were sympathetic to this heresy, which died out after the First Council of Constantinople.The term }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421 Homoousios}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 , or consubstantiality, was confirmed to reject this heresy at the First Council of Nicaea, which exiled its namesake Alexandrian scholar for his insistence that the Logos was created. For 10 points, name this Anti-trinitarian heresy that rejected Christ's eternal oneness with God, named after a preacher from Alexandria.\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421 Arian}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 ism }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl280\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 24. Description acceptable. A }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 New York Times}{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  discussion about a 1934 game similar in storyline to this one laments the ending of a 143-game \ldblquote infield streak\rdblquote , though a similar game nine days earlier had ended with its star player hitting a walk-off home run for Detroit. Bernard Raskas was notably mistaken about the location of one participant prior to this game. The winning pitcher in this game was}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  Mudcat Grant, who himself drove in a run in its six-run third. That inning saw a three-run Zoilo Versalles homer, and prompted the losing pitcher to quip to his manager }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  \ldblquote I know, Skip. Right now you wish I\rdblquote  had a similar quality to his team\rquote s star. Obama famously joked about this game that he too was a lefty and couldn\rquote t pitch well. For 10 points, identify this World Series Game 1 loss for Don Drysdale that occurred on the 10}{\fs20\super\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 th}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  of Tishrei, 1965, during which a certain arthritic pitcher was celebrating a High Holiday.}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: the }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Yom Kippur }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 game in which Sandy }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Koufax}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  didn\rquote t pitch [accept equivalents, also accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Game 1}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  of the }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 1965 World Series}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  before mention]\par }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 25. A violinist of this nationality is the namesake of Belgian composer Eugene Ysaye's Sonata No. 3 for Solo Violin, which is subtitled "Ballade". Gypsy musicians from this country are known as }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 lautari}{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 . A pianist from this country is revered for his 1950 recording of Chopin's Waltzes, which he made shortly before dying of Hodgkin's disease at age 30. From 1979 till 1996, the}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  Munich Philharmonic was directed by a conductor of this nationality, who refused to make recordings, and who conducted incredibly slowly and with minimal dynamic contrast, in a style inspired by \u9658\'5f Zen Buddhism. An early 20th-century violin virtuoso and composer wrote a series of folk-inspired orchestral rhapsodies named for this country, and an opera ending with the title character's death at Colonus, }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Oedipe}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 . For 10 points, name this country of origin of Dinu Lipatti, Sergiu Celibidache, and Georges Enescu. \par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Romania}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 26. This work argues that the the cruelties of the barbarians in one attack were in accordance with the customs of war, and points out that the Romans had at times slaughtered those seeking refuge in temples.  This work suggests that sworn virgins who were raped during that event may have suffered their fate due to excessive pride in their chastity, but notes that}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  \ldblquote sanctity of the body is not lost while sanctity of the mind remains\rdblquote .  This work discusses how the loss of property can have a salutary effect by making one more devoted to God, and attempts to answer the question of why God allows the righteous to suffer.  This work points out that \u9658\'5f Alaric's forces spared Christians who took refuge in their churches.  For 10 points, identify this 22-book work of philosophy, influenced by the 410 Sack of Rome, which describes the fate of the titular group as well as its worldly counterpart and was written by Augustine of Hippo.\par ANSWER: }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 City of God}{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  Against the Pagans}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  [or }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 De }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Civitate Dei}{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  contra Paganos}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ]\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 27. }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Ibn Saud lost power after trying to eliminate Nasser by paying Abdel Sarraj to perform this action, which Nasser exposed by gleefully waving a Saudi check made out to the Syrian Interior Minister. The opposition group Brothers to the Rescue was targeted twice in this kind of action in 1996, contributing to the harsh sentencing of the Cuban Five. ZAPU forces under Joshua Nkomo in Rhodesia popularized the commission of this action using}{\fs20\insrsid3037421  MANPADS, thousands of which are disconcertingly still missing in Libya. The Kargil War was nearly restarted after India committed this action in the Atlantique Incident. Weapons designed for this purpose include the Vympel R-73 and AIM-9 }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f }{\fs20\insrsid3037421 Sidewinder. NATO agreed to put Pershing II missiles in Germany after a 1983 instance of this action, which prompted Reagan to offer GPS technology for civilian use after its target veered too close to Sakhalin. For 10 points, identify this action carried out by the Soviet military against Korean Air Lines Flight 007.}{\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe3073\langfenp3073\insrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl100\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat8 {\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe3073\langfenp3073\insrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe3073\langfenp3073\insrsid3037421 Shooting down a plane}{\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe3073\langfenp3073\insrsid3037421  [accept all reasonable equivalents; prompt on just \ldblquote plane crashes,\rdblquote  \ldblquote air disasters,\rdblquote  or similar answers, but accept any answer that involves using sabotage/etc. to deliberately take }{\b\fs20\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe3073\langfenp3073\insrsid3037421 down a plane}{\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe3073\langfenp3073\insrsid3037421 ]}{\fs20\insrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\sl280\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\f24\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 28. This quotation addresses a woman on a date who refuses to acknowledge the sexual nature of her suitor\rquote s compliments and a man who had just escaped the explosion of the }{\b\i\f24\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Undauntable}{\b\f24\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 , Conan Motti. The speaker of this quotation earlier warns against being \ldblquote too proud of this technological terror\rdblquote  when describing the case of  a waiter who overacts his role of being a waiter. Shortly before this statement is uttered, it is noted that \ldblquote stolen}{\f24\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  data tapes\rdblquote  have not been conjured by its speaker\rquote s \ldblquote devotion to that ancient religion\rdblquote  and unwillingness to negate facticity in becoming his true self. This quotation is followed by Grand }{\f24\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f}{\f24\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  Moff Tarkin ordering: \ldblquote Vader, release him from self-deceit\rdblquote . For 10 points, recite this quote uttered while force-choking a man who refuses to embrace the freedom to act by Darth Sarte in }{\i\f24\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Being and Nothingness IV: A New Hope.}{\f24\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\f24\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: \ldblquote }{\b\f24\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 I find your lack of bad faith disturbing}{\f24\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \rdblquote \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl280\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 29. The protagonist of this novel gains one post after finding out his predecessor was secretly Muslim. It is noted that many people in this novel read the magazine \ldblquote Murder Weekly\rdblquote  while waiting outside a mall they aren\rquote t allowed into. That protagonist meditates how much of his country is like roosters in a coop, too busy trying to find living space in the coop to even contemplate busting out, when he has to take the}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  blame for a hit-and-run. One woman in this novel, Pinky Madam, uses the phrase \ldblquote what a fucking joke\rdblquote  far too often. The protagonist of this novel kills Mr. Ashok steals money to found a }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f\~}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 taxi company, as he describes in one of his letters to Wen Jiabao. For 10 points, identify this 2008 Booker-winning novel about Balram Halwai, written by Aravind Adiga.}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 White Tiger\par }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 30. In this episode, one character mistakenly thinks that some people enquiring about renting a car are instead offering to go out to buy meat. The protagonist yells at a crowd of people in this episode for not realizing that the burglar alarm is pitched a semitone lower than the fire alarm that was supposed to go off during a fire drill. In this episode, the Major becomes convinced that a}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  moose head has the ability to speak English. Due to the concussion he sustains in this episode from being hit in the head with a frying pan, the protagonist repeatedly fails to honor his own warning: "Don't mention the \u9658\'5f war". The most iconic image from this episode is of the protagonist with a bandaged head, doing a flamboyant goose-step while performing an impression of Adolf Hitler. For 10 points, name this episode of }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Fawlty Towers}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  in which the hotel is visited by guests of the title nationality. \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: "The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Germans}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 "\par \par }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 31. The cities of Aztalan and Trempealeau are believed to have been established by settlers from this city; they are cited as examples of the export of this city's culture to other regions.  The remnants of a copper smithy found in this city have been used to infer a trading relationship with cities several hundred miles to the north.  A large}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  defensive palisade was constructed at this site, although evidence suggests that it was never used.  Sacred red cedar was used to construct at least five astronomical calendars at this site; they are collectively known as \u9658\'5f \ldblquote Woodhenge\rdblquote .  The most prominent feature of this site has experienced \ldblquote slumping\rdblquote  and was most likely abandoned after having served as a palace or temple.  For 10 points, identify this archeological site home to Monks Mound which was once the center of the Mississippian culture.\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Cahokia\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl280\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 32. One weapon owned by this figure gains power upon destruction of a certain object by his enemies, enabling him to exact \ldblquote revenge.\rdblquote  This figure is often targeted by a bomb that runs around on two legs. He can earn the Honky Tonk Man achievement by taunting to kill people with a}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  guitar. One gun utilized by this character, the Widowmaker, returns ammo based on how much damage it deals.\~ He\rquote s not associated with medicine, but enemies assisted in a certain action by his robotic version have temporary invincibility. This character can manually control one object using the }{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \u9658\'5f\~}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Wrangler, and picks up metal from ammo packs and dead characters\rquote  dropped weapons. This character is most easily taken down by the spy, who typically stabs then saps. For 10 points, identify this character from }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Team Fortress 2}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  which constructs buildings like teleporters and sentry guns using his wrench.}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 ANSWER: The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Engineer}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri-720\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 33. One character in this novel always incorrectly guesses "seventeen" as the answer to any math problem. That character nearly starves after eating twenty-three bowls of a stew that makes the eater hungrier. In one scene in this novel, a character chaotically tries to conduct an orchestra to produce the colors of a sunrise. The protagonist of this novel fires a cannon containing a stolen}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  sound to end the silence in the Valley of Sound. The protagonist of this novel is joined by the Humbug in trying to rescue the princesses \u9658\'5f Rhyme and Reason. This book's iconic cover shows Jules Feiffer's illustration of the protagonist talking to Tock, a "watchdog" with an alarm-clock as part of his body. For 10 points, name this book about Milo's adventures in the Land Beyond after driving a toy car through the title checkpoint, a children's novel by Norton Juster. \par ANSWER: }{\i\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 Phantom Tollbooth\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3037421 {\b\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }{\b\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 34. One song on this album references \ldblquote the Gallic shrug\rdblquote  and tells the listener to \ldblquote call off the search for your soul\rdblquote .  That song is \ldblquote No. 1 Party Anthem\rdblquote .  A different song on this album focuses on a figure who \ldblquote needs to}{\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421  shelter from reality\rdblquote  and notes that \ldblquote the horizon tries but it's just not as kind on the eyes\rdblquote  as her.  In another song on this album, the singer claims that \u9658\'5f \ldblquote here isn't where I want to be and satisfaction feels like a distant memory\rdblquote  before asking the title question.  The most popular song on this album questions whether \ldblquote this feeling flows both ways\rdblquote  and states that the singer is \ldblquote crawlin' back to you\rdblquote .  For 10 points, identify this 2013 album which features the songs \ldblquote Arabella\rdblquote , \ldblquote R U Mine?\rdblquote , and \ldblquote Do I Wanna Know?\rdblquote , which derives its name from the initials of its Alex Turner-fronted band.\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 AM\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid3037421\charrsid3037421 \par }}