{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\title BEFORE AND AFTER LOLLAPALOOZA (BAAL)}
{\author John Lawrence}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19340\viewh17560\viewkind1\viewscale150
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 Mash-Up Tossup Extravaganza (MUTE) \
Packet by John Lawrence\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 1. Anthony Payne completed the unfinished sixth of these pieces, which depicts the Japanese god Jizio. The melody from the trio of the fourth of these pieces in G major was reused by their composer for the song \'93The King\'92s Way\'94 and depicts the Welsh god Gwyn ap Nudd. One of these pieces depicting Xolotl journeying to Mictlan had the lyrics \'93Land of Hopelessness and Glory\'94 added to it for Edward VII\'92s funeral. For 10 points, name these musical pieces by Edward Elgar, the first of which is often played when people graduate from the land of the living and are guided to the underworld. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Psychopomp and Circumstance
\b0 \ulnone  Marches\

\i0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 2. This character first meets Ned Nickerson in a novel in which a Swedish diary provides the clue to finding the Epistle of Wisdom. George Fayne and Bess Marvin assist this character, even though they are part of a group known as \'93The Ignorant\'94 that cannot read sacred texts. This character disguises her beliefs through 
\i taqiya 
\i0 in order to better solve mysteries like 
\i The Secrets of the Old Clock
\i0 . For 10 points, name this character created by Carolyn Keene ad-Darazi, a girl detective belonging to a Shi\'92ite offshoot.    \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWE: 
\b \ul Nancy Druze
\b0 \ulnone \
\
3. Opening a flip-top box to push a flashing red button will stop a variation of this reaction from producing pyridines from imines. Scientists performing this reaction often receive phone calls from a silhouetted figure offering them money if they do not use a compound named after Danishefsky in its \'93aza\'94 variant. In this reaction, an \'93endo\'94 preference causes substituents to point towards the model holding the suitcase containing the dienophile. For 10 points, name this four-plus-two cycloaddition performed by Howie Mandel.  \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Deal or No Diels-Alder
\b0 \ulnone  [grudgingly accept "
\b \ul Diels-Alder or No Deal
\b0 \ulnone ", but this is obviously a worse way of mashing it up] \
\
4. The Seven Crystal Balls are among the objects depicted in a gondola in this painter\'92s 
\i The Deliverance of Arsinoe
\i0 , which is often cited as a prime example of Alph-Art. One of his paintings depicts two identical-looking, bowler-wearing mustachioed detectives descending from the heavens to prevent a slave from being martyred. Another of his paintings depicts the words \'93blistering barnacles\'94 shooting out from Juno\'92s breast, where Captain Haddock was suckling. For 10 points, name this Venetian-Belgian master who painted the dog Snowy at the feet of Christ in his diagonally oriented 
\i Last Supper
\i0 . \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tintintoretto
\b0 \ulnone \
\
5. This artist designed a royal crest of a white running horse on a green background for the New National Gallery. After the Battle of the Field of the Celebrant, the Oath of Eorl was signed at the German Pavilion this artist designed for the 1929 International Exposition. Grima Wormtongue advised a ruler who sat in one of this artist\'92s Barcelona chairs. Eowyn appointed him as final director of the Bauhaus. He collaborated with Philip, son of John on King Theoden\'92s chamber in the Seagram Building. For 10 points, name this German architect from Middle-Earth, who built structures in a kingdom allied with Gondor. \
ANSWER: Ludwig 
\b \ul Mies van der Rohan \
\

\b0 \ulnone 6. On this show, the Salamanca cartel controls such processes as the creation of W and Z boson mass via the Higgs mechanism. One character on this show attempts to dissolve a corpse in a bathtub full of acid after positing Landau\'92s model of second-order phase transitions. On this show, Aaron Paul co-stars as Jesse Pinkman, who produces the Goldstone boson. For 10 points, name this show in which Bryan Cranston plays a chemistry teacher who becomes a meth dealer after the ground state of his life ceases to maintain its expected theoretical symmetry.  \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking Bad
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
7. This essay discusses how Higgs\'92s decision to disguise himself in 
\i Erewhon Revisited
\i0  mirrors the title figure\'92s decision to lose 63 pounds to play Trevor Reznik. This essay argues that the title figure\'92s portrayal of Patrick Bateman makes him \'93the principal enemy of moral progress in the world\'94. It criticizes the cosmological and teleological arguments for being as unconvincing as the growling voice the title figure used while acting opposite a villain played by Heath Ledger. For 10 points, name this essay in which Bertrand Russell explains why he was never cast as Batman. \
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul Why I Am Not a Christian Bale
\b0 \ulnone \'94 \
\
8. This work proposes a quadrilateral scheme of articulation, attribution, designation, and derivation that form the underlying structure of yam agriculture and the \'93week of peace\'94. This work analyzes the values that cause the murder of Ikemefuna as part of the 
\i episteme
\i0  of Umuofian culture. This work opens with a reading of gaze in a Velasquez painting of Okonkwo. For 10 points, name this philosophical work by Chinua Foucault, which discusses ways of structuring knowledge of Nigerian literature. \
ANSWER: 
\i The 
\b \ul Order of Things Fall Apart
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
9. In one work by this author, Vannevar Morgan hopes that designing an elevator to the moon will help him amend the Morrill Tariff. Stalwarts were initially fans of this author, who wrote a work in which a group of human ancestors discovers an extraterrestrial monolith that encourages them to limit Chinese immigration. Roscoe Conkling mentored this author, who wrote a work in which the computer HAL kills those who oppose the Pendleton Act. For 10 points, name this successor of James Garfield and author of 
\i 1881: A Space Odyssey
\i0 . \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Chester A. Arthur C. Clarke
\b0 \ulnone  [middle initials may be omitted, or replaced with the full names \'93Alan\'94 and \'93Charles\'94, but this is clearly the most artful way of mashing these two names up] \
\
10. One work in this genre includes a character who pleads \'93See me, feel me / Touch me, heal me\'94 while trapped in a vacuum defined as an infinite sea of particles with negative energy. In one work in this genre, a gypsy called the Acid Queen attempts to cure a character by proposing the existence of antimatter. One work in this genre describes a relativistic wave function for spin-1/2 pinballs. The most famous work in this genre is about a deaf, dumb, and blind kid who is zero everywhere except at zero. For 10 points, name this genre pioneered with the album
\i  Delta Function
\i0  by The Who. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Dirac Opera
\b0 \ulnone \
\
11. In one film by this director, a character lists the things that make life worth living as: \'93Groucho Marx, Willie Mays, the second movement of the Jupiter Symphony, peaches, and penumbras\'94. In one film by him, Gil Pender travels back in time to meet literary figures like Garcia Lorca and Walt Whitman, who is eyeing the grocery boys. In his most famous film, Marshall Moloch tells a professor on line at a movie theater that he knows nothing of Moloch\'92s work, while Alvy Singer is with a character played by Diane Keaton in Rockland. For 10 points, name this Jewish Beat comedy director of 
\i Annie Howl
\i0 . \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Woody Allen Ginsberg
\b0 \ulnone \
\
12. This play opens with its protagonist rowing a boat across a lake parallel to the ALT pathway. In this play, Baron von Attinghausen, champion of the peasants, dies after reaching the Hayflick limit. One character in this play refuses to bow to a hat on a pole, saying that his reverse transcriptase is bound only to an RNA template and not by Austrian control of Switzerland. For 10 points, name this play by Friedrich Schiller, whose title character is forced to lengthen the chromosomes on his son\'92s head.  \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul William Telomerase
\b0 \ulnone  [or 
\b \ul William Tellomere
\b0 \ulnone ]\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 13. This document established free trade with the Philippines so that there could be \'93Passion, fruit, and sex all in the atmosphere\'94. One proponent of this document praised it, saying: \'93It poppin\'92 it rollin\'92 it rollin\'92\'94 in his Winona Speech. It altered the terms of the Dingley tariff to increase sales in grey Cadillacs, so that the Taft Administration could proclaim that it \'93got money in the bank\'94. For 10 points, name this 1909 tariff that aimed to lower how much it would cost to \'93Buy You a Drank\'94. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul T-Pain-Aldrich
\b0 \ulnone  Tariff\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 14. In this short story, seven rooms, each decorated in a different color, contain such items as the Postman\'92s Hat and the Bunny Hood. The protagonist of this short story seals himself in a castle with his courtiers, ignoring the imminent collision of the moon with Clock Town. The \'93Song of Time\'94 plays at a ball in this story, during which the protagonist pursues an unidentified party guest. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allan Poe short story in which Link confronts the Skull Kid, who turns out to be an allegorical representation of the title plague. \
ANSWER: \'93The Legend of Zelda: 
\b \ul Majora\'92s Mask of the Red Death
\b0 \ulnone \'94\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
15. These two men collaborated on a work in which a character sings: \'93Polyhedra can\'92t, through striving / Re-assemble---re-assemble / When Dehn sees at what I\'92m driving / Let him tremble\'97let him tremble!\'94 in \'93Things Are Sometimes What They Seem\'94. In another collaboration between them, a character sings \'93About the basis theorem, I\'92m teeming with a lot o\'92 news / And gen\'92ralize the inner product space from the hypotenuse\'94 in his song \'93I Am the Very Model of a Modern Major Problem\'94. For 10 points, name this mathematician and composer team that included 
\i The Pirates of Secants 
\i0 and 
\i F(x) Pinafore
\i0  among their 23 namesake problems. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Hilbert and Sullivan
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
16. Some of the precedent set in this case was eroded by Gonzales v. Carhart\'92s decision to accept an alternate system developed by George Kennedy at Yale. In his dissent in this case, Byron White objected to the use of numerals to indicate tonality. The use of apostrophes to indicate aspiration was outlined in Harry Blackmun\'92s majority opinion, which represented an \'93r\'94 with a \'93j\'94. This decision was overturned in one country in the 1950\'92s, but was accepted in Taiwan until 2009. For 10 points, name this 1973 Supreme Court case that legalized Romanizing Mandarin Chinese. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Roe v. Wade-Giles
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 17. Titian mocked this event in a parody in which Robert Manion and Robert Weir were portrayed as apes. One writer claimed that this event exacerbated the Canadian Great Depression by attempting to portray duration rather than capturing a singular moment. At one point in this event, Polydorus, Athenodoros, and Agesander met with R.B. Bennett. For 10 points, name this 1935 protest by doubters of the Trojan Horse against the serpent infiltration of relief camps. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Laocoon-to-Ottawa Trek \

\b0 \ulnone \
18. A sea monster bites off this character\'92s right foot while she is canoeing and singing \'93Just Around the Riverbend\'94. This character runs \'93the hidden pine trails of the forest\'94 in her obsidian sandals. And after hearing \'93the wolf cry to the blue corn moon\'94 and asking \'93the grinning bobcat why he grinned\'94, she transforms into a jaguar and eats the second sun. For 10 points, name this Aztec Powhatan maiden who is able to see all of \'93The Colors of the Wind\'94 in her smoking mirror. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tezcatlipocahontas
\b0 \ulnone \
\
19. This author was opposed by Tobiah and Sanballah while attempting to write a poem describing \'93A Rock, A River, A Tree\'94. She recounted the years she spent living in Accra, Ghana as the cupbearer to Artaxerxes I in 
\i All God\'92s Children Need Traveling Shoes
\i0 . She urged the rebuilding of the walls of Jerusalem in a poem she delivered at the 1993 inauguration of Bill Clinton. For 10 points, name this African American prophet and poet, who wrote 
\i I Know Why the Caged Jew Sings
\i0 . \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nehemiah Angelou
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 20.
\fs24  
\fs20 This publication included the rust-covered artwork 
\i Cor-Ten
\i0  to illustrate the maxim \'93Sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labor wears\'94. A block of red wax named for the Sanskrit for \'93self-generated\'94 was among the excerpts from this work republished in 
\i The Way to Wealth
\i0 . Isaac Bickerstaff\'92s kidney was the inspiration for a bean-shaped silver object contained within this work. And it is peppered with aphorisms like \'93A penny saved is a penny that can be melted down to make a sculpture\'94. For 10 points, name this Benjamin Franklin work about the British-Indian sculptor of 
\i Cloud Gate
\i0 . \
ANSWER: Anish 
\b \ul Kapoor Richard's Alamanack
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 21. In this conflict, Johann Michelson won a battle against a general who was busy trying to catch a Heffalump. Alexander Suvorov interrogated the rebel leader in this conflict, who ate all the honey he was planning on giving to an ally who had lost his tail. During this conflict, the Battle of Kazan was fought in the Hundred Acre Wood, and the Old Believers were led by Kanga, Rooski, and Eeyorevich. For 10 points, name this rebellion against Catherine Robinson the Great, led by the namesake teddy bear. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Winnie-the-Poohgachev\'92s Rebellion
\b0 \ulnone  [accept obvious equivalents for \'93rebellion\'94, like \'93uprising\'94]\
\
22. In this novel, Berthe Crow is banished to earth for dropping the Heavenly Queen\'92s crystal goblet. At another point in this novel, Otis Amber urinates on five pillars that turn out to be fingers. At the end of this work, Judge Ford tells Pigsy that the title character purposely sacrificed his queen in a game of chess. The eighty-first calamity occurs in this work when a turtle named Turtle kicks Sandy McSouthers in the shins, causing him to lose some important scriptures. For 10 points, name this Chinese Classical novel in which Sun Wukong competes to become the title millionaire\'92s heir by solving his murder. \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Journey to the Westing Game\

\i0\b0 \ulnone \
23. Peano axioms attempt to define the rules in this type of system by which a certain figure or his wife may pick up his paychecks. In this type of system, \'93I throw the ball to Naturally\'94 is not considered a well-formed sentence. Godel proved that this type of system is complete but not consistent because most questions generate recursive loops and all propositional negations of knowledge result in \'93third base\'94. For 10 points, name this type of system employed by Bertrand Abbot and Alfred North Costello in their 
\i Principia Commedia
\i0 .  \
ANSWER: \'93
\b \ul Who\'92s on First-Order Logic?
\b0 \ulnone \'94 \
\
24. The protagonist of this series loses books while travelling through a series of different locations, including the Bean-Field and the hut of John Farmer, while accompanied by his dog Woof. Recurring characters in this series include the wizard Whitebeard and the poet Ellery Channing. The Transcendentalist protagonist of this series wears glasses and a red-and-white striped shirt and bobble hat. For 10 points, name this popular children\'92s book series in which one must locate Henry David Thoreau in pictures of crowd scenes near Concord, Massachusetts.  \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Where\'92s Walden?
\i0\b0 \ulnone  \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i0 \cf0 25. A CC sarrusophone is a military band equivalent of this woodwind instrument, which was found in the plane crash that led to the exposure of Eugene H. Hasenfus. John Pointdexter was arrested for fluffing this instrument\'92s bass-line part in the Turkish march section of Beethoven\'92s Ninth Symphony. The Tower Commission investigated this instrument\'92s use in the opening of \'93In the Hall of the Mountain King\'94, which implicated Oliver North. For 10 points, name this double-reed woodwind instrument used by the Reagan administration to siphon funds to Anti-Sandinistas in Nicaragua. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Iran Contrabassoon
\b0 \ulnone  \
\
26. This novel\'92s character of Roy Neary is based on Bram Fischer. After hearing a black man dismiss white political efforts as irrelevant, this novel\'92s protagonist flees to Nice to stay with Katya Capshaw, the widow of another character. The protagonist feels compelled to combat Amon Goth and apartheid after her childhood friend Baasie is kidnapped to Neverland. After saving Private Ryan, the title character must contend with Lionel\'92s legacy with the South African Communist Party. For 10 points, name this Nadine Gordimer novel in which Rosa must decide whether to continue the Last Crusade of her blockbuster director father.  \
ANSWER: 
\i Steven 
\b \ul Spielburger\'92s Daughter
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
27. This ruler inflicted the martyrdoms of Madaura by revealing Trelawney\'92s prophecy to the Dark Lord. This ruler\'92s namesake arch in Leptis Magna contains a sculpture of a Patronus in the form of a doe. He educated his son Geta in Occlumency, but stopped when Geta managed to intrude on a memory of his mockery by James. He applied the 
\i Sectumsempra 
\i0 curse to the losers of the Battle of Lugdunum at which he killed Clodius Albinus Dumbledore. For 10 points, name this figure who ascended from the rank of Potions Master to Roman Emperor.  \
ANSWER: Lucius 
\b \ul Septimius Severus Snape
\b0 \ulnone \
\
28. One character in this play laments having killed his baby brother by giving him measles in the song \'93What\'92s This\'94. In this play, a family discusses what sanatorium to send Oogie Boogie to, after he is diagnosed with tuberculosis by Dr. Hardy. After the kidnapping of Santa Claus, Mary sinks deeper and deeper into morphine addiction. For 10 points, name this play written by Eugene O\'92Burton set in Halloween Town, in which Jack Skellington tries to celebrate the Yuletide with the Tyrones. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Long Day\'92s Journey Into Nightmare Before Christmas
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
29. This work defends the efficacy of supernatural rituals, such as one in which each participant takes one egg from each basket and then passes the basket to his left, called a \'93rooster draft\'94. This work describes the construction of 
\i kamkokolas
\i0  at graveyards to which \'93sorceries\'94 and \'93instants\'94 are relegated. The main focus of this study is the practice of cultivating lands to be tapped for manna with which to cast spells. For 10 points, name this anthropological study by Bronislaw Malinowski about the agricultural rituals of the Wizards of the Coast. \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Coral Gardens and their Magic: The Gathering\

\i0\b0 \ulnone \
30. At one point in this novel, the title character dresses up as Bobo the bear in order to get his mother to kiss him goodnight. Much of the first half of this novel is devoted to dreams of the title character's beloved jumping naked out of a cake to sing \'93Happy Birthday\'94 and reminiscences of working in the nuclear power plant in Combray. The title character of this novel associates the \'93little phrase\'94 in the Vinteuil Sonata with his love for Malibu Stacy, and mistakenly confesses to having killed his beloved for blocking out the sun with a machine in the two-part episode \'93Who Shot Odette?\'94. For 10 points, name this novel in which the title character recalls working for Mr. Burns after eating a tea-soaked madeleine. \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Swann\'92s Waylon Smithers
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
31. In this film, one character says \'93You had an option, sir\'97to not say \'91Jehovah\'92\'94 shortly before John Turner is stoned to death by women wearing false beards. In this film, the leader of the Progressive Conservative party asks \'93What have the Liberals ever done for us?\'94, and the title character\'92s mother says \'93He\'92s not the Prime Minister. He\'92s a very naughty boy!\'94. Characters in this film sing \'93Always Look on the Bright Side of Life\'94 shortly after the rejection of the Meech Lake Accord by Biggus Dickus. For 10 points, name this Monty Python film about a man who is mistaken for the Messiah in 1980\'92s Canada. \
ANSWER: 
\i\b \ul Life of Brian Mulroney
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
32. Dr. Yakub created the White Race in this location, shortly after listening to a performance by Figrin D\'92an and the Modal Nodes, a band of biths. One text written here includes one character stating \'93These are not the Four Horseman you are looking for\'94. That text written here has generated scholarly debate as to whether Greedo will shoot before or after Judgment Day. For 10 points, name this island on Tatooine that contains the cantina and spaceport at which St. John wrote the last book of the bible.  \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Patmos Eisley
\b0 \ulnone \
\
}